<html><body><pre>
[Title 40 CFR ]
[Code of Federal Regulations (annual edition) - July 1, 2016 Edition]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page i]]

          
<R02>
          Title 40

Protection of Environment


________________________

Parts 700 to 722

                         Revised as of July 1, 2016

          Containing a codification of documents of general 
          applicability and future effect

          As of July 1, 2016
                    Published by the Office of the Federal Register 
                    National Archives and Records Administration as a 
                    Special Edition of the Federal Register

[[Page ii]]

          U.S. GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL EDITION NOTICE

          Legal Status and Use of Seals and Logos
          <GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT>
          
          The seal of the National Archives and Records Administration 
              (NARA) authenticates the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) as 
              the official codification of Federal regulations established 
              under the Federal Register Act. Under the provisions of 44 
              U.S.C. 1507, the contents of the CFR, a special edition of the 
              Federal Register, shall be judicially noticed. The CFR is 
              prima facie evidence of the original documents published in 
              the Federal Register (44 U.S.C. 1510).

          It is prohibited to use NARA's official seal and the stylized Code 
              of Federal Regulations logo on any republication of this 
              material without the express, written permission of the 
              Archivist of the United States or the Archivist's designee. 
              Any person using NARA's official seals and logos in a manner 
              inconsistent with the provisions of 36 CFR part 1200 is 
              subject to the penalties specified in 18 U.S.C. 506, 701, and 
              1017.

          Use of ISBN Prefix

          This is the Official U.S. Government edition of this publication 
              and is herein identified to certify its authenticity. Use of 
              the 0-16 ISBN prefix is for U.S. Government Publishing Office 
              Official Editions only. The Superintendent of Documents of the 
              U.S. Government Publishing Office requests that any reprinted 
              edition clearly be labeled as a copy of the authentic work 
              with a new ISBN.

              <GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT>
              
          U . S . G O V E R N M E N T P U B L I S H I N G O F F I C E

          ------------------------------------------------------------------

          U.S. Superintendent of Documents <bullet<ls-thn-eq> Washington, DC 
              20402-0001

          http://bookstore.gpo.gov

          Phone: toll-free (866) 512-1800; DC area (202) 512-1800

[[Page iii]]







As of July 1, 2016

Title 40, Parts 700 to 789

Revised as of July 1, 2015

Is Replaced by

Title 40, Parts 700 to 722

and

Parts 723 to 789



[[Page v]]




<R02>
                            Table of Contents


<R03>
                                                                    Page
  Explanation.................................................     vii

  Title 40:
          Chapter I--Environmental Protection Agency 
          (Continued)                                                3
  Finding Aids:
      Table of CFR Titles and Chapters........................     813
      Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR......     833
      List of CFR Sections Affected...........................     843

[[Page vi]]





                     ----------------------------

                     Cite this Code: CFR
                     To cite the regulations in 
                       this volume use title, 
                       part and section number. 
                       Thus, 40 CFR 700.17 refers 
                       to title 40, part 700, 
                       section 17.

                     ----------------------------

[[Page vii]]



                               EXPLANATION

    The Code of Federal Regulations is a codification of the general and 
permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the Executive 
departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Code is divided 
into 50 titles which represent broad areas subject to Federal 
regulation. Each title is divided into chapters which usually bear the 
name of the issuing agency. Each chapter is further subdivided into 
parts covering specific regulatory areas.
    Each volume of the Code is revised at least once each calendar year 
and issued on a quarterly basis approximately as follows:

Title 1 through Title 16.................................as of January 1
Title 17 through Title 27..................................as of April 1
Title 28 through Title 41...................................as of July 1
Title 42 through Title 50................................as of October 1

    The appropriate revision date is printed on the cover of each 
volume.

LEGAL STATUS

    The contents of the Federal Register are required to be judicially 
noticed (44 U.S.C. 1507). The Code of Federal Regulations is prima facie 
evidence of the text of the original documents (44 U.S.C. 1510).

HOW TO USE THE CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS

    The Code of Federal Regulations is kept up to date by the individual 
issues of the Federal Register. These two publications must be used 
together to determine the latest version of any given rule.
    To determine whether a Code volume has been amended since its 
revision date (in this case, July 1, 2016), consult the ``List of CFR 
Sections Affected (LSA),'' which is issued monthly, and the ``Cumulative 
List of Parts Affected,'' which appears in the Reader Aids section of 
the daily Federal Register. These two lists will identify the Federal 
Register page number of the latest amendment of any given rule.

EFFECTIVE AND EXPIRATION DATES

    Each volume of the Code contains amendments published in the Federal 
Register since the last revision of that volume of the Code. Source 
citations for the regulations are referred to by volume number and page 
number of the Federal Register and date of publication. Publication 
dates and effective dates are usually not the same and care must be 
exercised by the user in determining the actual effective date. In 
instances where the effective date is beyond the cut-off date for the 
Code a note has been inserted to reflect the future effective date. In 
those instances where a regulation published in the Federal Register 
states a date certain for expiration, an appropriate note will be 
inserted following the text.

OMB CONTROL NUMBERS

    The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-511) requires 
Federal agencies to display an OMB control number with their information 
collection request.

[[Page viii]]

Many agencies have begun publishing numerous OMB control numbers as 
amendments to existing regulations in the CFR. These OMB numbers are 
placed as close as possible to the applicable recordkeeping or reporting 
requirements.

PAST PROVISIONS OF THE CODE

    Provisions of the Code that are no longer in force and effect as of 
the revision date stated on the cover of each volume are not carried. 
Code users may find the text of provisions in effect on any given date 
in the past by using the appropriate List of CFR Sections Affected 
(LSA). For the convenience of the reader, a ``List of CFR Sections 
Affected'' is published at the end of each CFR volume. For changes to 
the Code prior to the LSA listings at the end of the volume, consult 
previous annual editions of the LSA. For changes to the Code prior to 
2001, consult the List of CFR Sections Affected compilations, published 
for 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000.

``[RESERVED]'' TERMINOLOGY

    The term ``[Reserved]'' is used as a place holder within the Code of 
Federal Regulations. An agency may add regulatory information at a 
``[Reserved]'' location at any time. Occasionally ``[Reserved]'' is used 
editorially to indicate that a portion of the CFR was left vacant and 
not accidentally dropped due to a printing or computer error.

INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE

    What is incorporation by reference? Incorporation by reference was 
established by statute and allows Federal agencies to meet the 
requirement to publish regulations in the Federal Register by referring 
to materials already published elsewhere. For an incorporation to be 
valid, the Director of the Federal Register must approve it. The legal 
effect of incorporation by reference is that the material is treated as 
if it were published in full in the Federal Register (5 U.S.C. 552(a)). 
This material, like any other properly issued regulation, has the force 
of law.
    What is a proper incorporation by reference? The Director of the 
Federal Register will approve an incorporation by reference only when 
the requirements of 1 CFR part 51 are met. Some of the elements on which 
approval is based are:
    (a) The incorporation will substantially reduce the volume of 
material published in the Federal Register.
    (b) The matter incorporated is in fact available to the extent 
necessary to afford fairness and uniformity in the administrative 
process.
    (c) The incorporating document is drafted and submitted for 
publication in accordance with 1 CFR part 51.
    What if the material incorporated by reference cannot be found? If 
you have any problem locating or obtaining a copy of material listed as 
an approved incorporation by reference, please contact the agency that 
issued the regulation containing that incorporation. If, after 
contacting the agency, you find the material is not available, please 
notify the Director of the Federal Register, National Archives and 
Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001, 
or call 202-741-6010.

CFR INDEXES AND TABULAR GUIDES

    A subject index to the Code of Federal Regulations is contained in a 
separate volume, revised annually as of January 1, entitled CFR Index 
and Finding Aids. This volume contains the Parallel Table of Authorities 
and Rules. A list of CFR titles, chapters, subchapters, and parts and an 
alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are also included in 
this volume.

[[Page ix]]

    An index to the text of ``Title 3--The President'' is carried within 
that volume.
    The Federal Register Index is issued monthly in cumulative form. 
This index is based on a consolidation of the ``Contents'' entries in 
the daily Federal Register.
    A List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA) is published monthly, keyed to 
the revision dates of the 50 CFR titles.

REPUBLICATION OF MATERIAL

    There are no restrictions on the republication of material appearing 
in the Code of Federal Regulations.

INQUIRIES

    For a legal interpretation or explanation of any regulation in this 
volume, contact the issuing agency. The issuing agency's name appears at 
the top of odd-numbered pages.
    For inquiries concerning CFR reference assistance, call 202-741-6000 
or write to the Director, Office of the Federal Register, National 
Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 
20740-6001 or e-mail fedreg.info@nara.gov.

SALES

    The Government Publishing Office (GPO) processes all sales and 
distribution of the CFR. For payment by credit card, call toll-free, 
866-512-1800, or DC area, 202-512-1800, M-F 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. e.s.t. or 
fax your order to 202-512-2104, 24 hours a day. For payment by check, 
write to: US Government Publishing Office - New Orders, P.O. Box 979050, 
St. Louis, MO 63197-9000.

ELECTRONIC SERVICES

    The full text of the Code of Federal Regulations, the LSA (List of 
CFR Sections Affected), The United States Government Manual, the Federal 
Register, Public Laws, Public Papers of the Presidents of the United 
States, Compilation of Presidential Documents and the Privacy Act 
Compilation are available in electronic format via www.ofr.gov. For more 
information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government 
Publishing Office. Phone 202-512-1800, or 866-512-1800 (toll-free). E-
mail, ContactCenter@gpo.gov.
    The Office of the Federal Register also offers a free service on the 
National Archives and Records Administration's (NARA) World Wide Web 
site for public law numbers, Federal Register finding aids, and related 
information. Connect to NARA's web site at www.archives.gov/federal-
register.
    The e-CFR is a regularly updated, unofficial editorial compilation 
of CFR material and Federal Register amendments, produced by the Office 
of the Federal Register and the Government Publishing Office. It is 
available at www.ecfr.gov.

    Oliver A. Potts,
    Director,
    Office of the Federal Register.
    July 1, 2016.







[[Page xi]]



                               THIS TITLE

    Title 40--Protection of Environment is composed of thirty-seven 
volumes. The parts in these volumes are arranged in the following order: 
Parts 1-49, parts 50-51, part 52 (52.01-52.1018), part 52 (52.1019-
52.2019), part 52 (52.2020-end of part 52), parts 53-59, part 60 (60.1-
60.499) , part 60 (60.500-end of part 60, sections), part 60 
(Appendices), parts 61-62, part 63 (63.1-63.599), part 63 (63.600-
63.1199), part 63 (63.1200-63.1439), part 63 (63.1440-63.6175), part 63 
(63.6580-63.8830), part 63 (63.8980-end of part 63), parts 64-71, parts 
72-79, part 80, part 81, parts 82-86, parts 87-95, parts 96-99, parts 
100-135, parts 136-149, parts 150-189, parts 190-259, parts 260-265, 
parts 266-299, parts 300-399, parts 400-424, parts 425-699, parts 700-
722, parts 723-789, parts 790-999, parts 1000-1059, and part 1060 to 
end. The contents of these volumes represent all current regulations 
codified under this title of the CFR as of July 1, 2016.

    Chapter I--Environmental Protection Agency appears in all thirty-
seven volumes. Regulations issued by the Council on Environmental 
Quality, including an Index to Parts 1500 through 1508, appear in the 
volume containing parts 1060 to end. The OMB control numbers for title 
40 appear in Sec.  9.1 of this chapter.

    For this volume, Ann Worley was Chief Editor. The Code of Federal 
Regulations publication program is under the direction of John Hyrum 
Martinez, assisted by Stephen J. Frattini.

[[Page 1]]


<R01>
                   TITLE 40--PROTECTION OF ENVIRONMENT


<R02>

                  (This book contains parts 700 to 722)

  --------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                    Part

chapter i--Environmental Protection Agency (Continued)......         700

[[Page 3]]


<R02>
         CHAPTER I--ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (CONTINUED)


<R03>

  --------------------------------------------------------------------


  Editorial Note: Nomenclature changes to chapter I appear at 65 FR 
47324, 47325, Aug. 2, 2000; 66 FR 34375, 34376, June 28, 2001.

               SUBCHAPTER R--TOXIC SUBSTANCES CONTROL ACT
Part                                                                Page
700             General.....................................           5
702             General practices and procedures............           8
704             Reporting and recordkeeping requirements....          10
707             Chemical imports and exports................          27
710             Compilation of the TSCA chemical substance 
                    inventory...............................          32
711             TSCA chemical data reporting requirements...          37
712             Chemical information rules..................          62
716             Health and safety data reporting............          84
717             Records and reports of allegations that 
                    chemical substances cause significant 
                    adverse reactions to health or the 
                    environment.............................         122
720             Premanufacture notification.................         128
721             Significant new uses of chemical substances.         153

[[Page 5]]


<R03>
                SUBCHAPTER R_TOXIC SUBSTANCES CONTROL ACT

<R05>


<R03>
PART 700_GENERAL--Table of Contents



                           Subpart A_Addresses

Sec.
700.17 Addresses for the Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics.

Subpart B [Reserved]

                             Subpart C_Fees

700.40 Purpose and applicability.
700.41 Radon user fees.
700.43 Definitions.
700.45 Fee payments.
700.49 Failure to remit fees.

    Authority: 15 U.S.C 2625 and 2665, 44 U.S.C. 3504.

    Source: 53 FR 31252, Aug. 17, 1988, unless otherwise noted.


<R04>
                           Subpart A_Addresses

    Source: 77 FR 46292, Aug. 3, 2012, unless otherwise noted.


<R05>
Sec. 700.17  Addresses for the Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics.

    The official addresses, unless otherwise noted, are as follows:
    (a) Correspondence and non-docket materials--(1) United States 
Postal Service mailing address. Office of Pollution Prevention and 
Toxics (7401M), Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. 
NW., Washington, DC 20460-0001.
    (2) Hand/courier delivery address. Office of Pollution Prevention 
and Toxics, Environmental Protection Agency, EPA East Bldg., 1201 
Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20004. This is not a mailing 
address. You must make arrangements with the person receiving your 
delivery.
    (b) Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics Docket (OPPT Docket)--
(1) Electronic docket address. Publicly available docket materials are 
available in the electronic docket at http://www.regulations.gov. 
Although listed in the docket index at regulations.gov, some information 
is not publicly available, e.g., Confidential Business Information (CBI) 
or other information whose disclosure is restricted by statute. Certain 
other material, such as copyrighted material, will be publicly available 
only at the OPPT Docket.
    (2) Physical location. Environmental Protection Agency Docket Center 
(EPA/DC), Environmental Protection Agency, EPA West Bldg., Rm. 3334, 
1301 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20460-0001. The telephone 
number for the OPPT Docket is (202) 566-0280. This is not a mailing 
address. For instructions on visiting the docket, go to http://
www.epa.gov/dockets/contacts.htm.
    (3) United States Postal Service mailing address. Document Control 
Office (7407M), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, Environmental 
Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20460-
0001.
    (4) Hand/courier delivery address. Document Control Office, Office 
of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, Environmental Protection Agency, EPA 
East Bldg., Rm. 6428, 1201 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC. 
Deliveries are only accepted between 8:30 a.m. and 4 p.m., and special 
arrangements should be made for deliveries of boxed information. The 
telephone number for the Document Control Office is (202) 564-8930.

Subpart B [Reserved]


<R04>
                             Subpart C_Fees


<R05>
Sec. 700.40  Purpose and applicability.

    (a) Purpose. The purpose of this subpart is to collect fees from 
manufacturers, importers, and processors who submit notices and 
applications to EPA under section 5 of the Toxic Substances Control Act 
(15 U.S.C. 2604) to defray part of EPA's cost of administering the Act.
    (b) Applicability. This subpart applies to all manufacturers, 
importers, and processors who submit certain notices and applications to 
EPA under section 5 of the Act.


<R05>
Sec. 700.41  Radon user fees.

    User fees relating to radon proficiency programs authorized under 
the

[[Page 6]]

Toxic Substances Control Act appear at 40 CFR part 195.

[59 FR 13177, Mar. 18, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 700.43  Definitions.

    Definitions in section 3 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2602), as well as 
definitions contained in Sec. Sec. 704.3, 720.3, and 725.3 of this 
chapter, apply to this subpart unless otherwise specified in this 
section. In addition, the following definitions apply:
    Consolidated microbial commercial activity notice or consolidated 
MCAN means any MCAN submitted to EPA that covers more than one 
microorganism (each being assigned a separate MCAN number by EPA) as a 
result of a prenotice agreement with EPA.
    Consolidated premanufacture notice or consolidated PMN means any PMN 
submitted to EPA that covers more than one chemical substance (each 
being assigned a separate PMN number by EPA) as a result of a prenotice 
agreement with EPA (See 48 FR 21734).
    Exemption application means any application submitted to EPA under 
section 5(h)(2) of the Act.
    Exemption notice means any notice submitted to EPA under Sec. 
723.175 of this chapter.
    Final product means a new chemical substance (as ``new chemical 
substance'' is defined in Sec. 720.3 of this chapter) that is 
manufactured by a person for distribution in commerce, or for use by the 
person other than as an intermediate.
    Intermediate premanufacture notice or intermediate PMN means any PMN 
submitted to EPA for a chemical substance which is an intermediate (as 
``intermediate'' is defined in Sec. 720.3 of this chapter) in the 
production of a final product, provided that the PMN for the 
intermediate is submitted to EPA at the same time as, and together with, 
the PMN for the final product and that the PMN for the intermediate 
identifies the final product and describes the chemical reactions 
leading from the intermediate to the final product. If PMNs are 
submitted to EPA at the same time for several intermediates used in the 
production of a final product, each of those is an intermediate PMN if 
they all identify the final product and every other associated 
intermediate PMN and are submitted to EPA at the same time as, and 
together with, the PMN for the final product.
    Joint submitters means two or more persons who submit a section 5 
notice together.
    Microbial commercial activity notice or MCAN means any notice for 
microorganisms submitted to EPA pursuant to section 5(a)(1) of the Act 
in accordance with subpart D of part 725 of this chapter.
    Person means a manufacturer, importer, or processor.
    Premanufacture notice or PMN means any notice submitted to EPA 
pursuant to section 5(a)(1)(A) of the Act in accordance with part 720 of 
this chapter or Sec. 723.250 of this chapter.
    Section 5 notice means any PMN, consolidated PMN, intermediate PMN, 
significant new use notice, exemption notice, exemption application, any 
MCAN or consolidated MCAN submitted under section 5 of the Act.
    Significant new use notice means any notice submitted to EPA 
pursuant to section 5(a)(1)(B) of the Act in accordance with part 721 of 
this chapter.
    Small business concern means any person whose total annual sales in 
the person's fiscal year preceding the date of the submission of the 
applicable section 5 notice, when combined with those of the parent 
company (if any), are less than $40 million.

[53 FR 31252, Aug. 17, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 17931, Apr. 11, 1997]


<R05>
Sec. 700.45  Fee payments.

    (a) Persons who must pay fees. Persons submitting a section 5 notice 
to EPA shall remit for each such notice the appropriate fee identified 
in paragraph (b) of this section in accordance with the procedures in 
paragraph (e) of this section.
    (b) Fees. Persons shall remit fee payments to EPA as follows:
    (1) Small business concerns. Small business concerns shall remit a 
fee of $100 for each section 5 notice submitted.
    (2) Others. Persons other than small business concerns shall remit 
fees according to the type of section 5 notice as follows:

[[Page 7]]

    (i) Premanufacture notices and consolidated premanufacture notices. 
Persons shall remit a fee of $2,500 for each PMN or consolidated PMN 
submitted.
    (ii) Intermediate premanufacture notices. Persons shall remit a fee 
of $1,000 for each intermediate PMN. However, for the PMN for the final 
product the person shall submit the fee in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this 
section.
    (iii) Significant new use notices. Persons shall remit a fee of 
$2,500 for each significant new use notice submitted.
    (iv) Exemption applications. Persons shall remit a fee of $2,500 for 
each exemption application submitted under section 5(h)(2) of the Act.
    (v) Exemption notices. Persons shall remit a fee of $2,500 for each 
exemption notice submitted under Sec. 723.175 of this chapter.
    (vi) MCAN and consolidated MCAN. Persons shall remit a fee of $2,500 
for each MCAN or consolidated MCAN submitted.
    (c) No fee required. Persons are exempt from remitting any fee for 
submissions under Sec. Sec. 720.38, 723.50, and subparts E, F, and G of 
part 725 of this chapter.
    (d) Joint submitters. Joint submitters of a section 5 notice are 
required to remit the appropriate fee identified in paragraph (b) of 
this section for each section 5 notice regardless of the number of joint 
submitters for that notice. To qualify for the fee identified in 
paragraph (b)(1) of this section, each joint submitter of a section 5 
notice must qualify as a small business concern under Sec. 700.43.
    (e) Remittance procedure. (1) Each remittance under this section 
shall be in United States currency and shall be paid by money order, 
bank draft, wire transfer, Pay.gov service provided through the 
Department of the Treasury, or check drawn to the order of the 
Environmental Protection Agency.
    (2) Each paper remittance shall be sent to the Environmental 
Protection Agency, Washington Finance Center, Toxic Substances Control 
Act User Fees, P.O. Box 979073, St. Louis, MO 63197-9000.
    (3) Persons who submit a TSCA section 5 notice shall place an 
identifying number and a payment identity number on the front page of 
each TSCA section 5 notice submitted. The identifying number must 
include the letters ``TS'' followed by a combination of 6 numbers 
(letters may be substituted for some numbers). The payment identity 
number may be a check number, a wire transfer number, or a ``Pay.gov'' 
transaction number used to transmit the user fee. The same TS number and 
the submitter's name must appear on the corresponding fee remittance 
under this section. If a remittance applies to more than one TSCA 
section 5 notice, the person shall include the name of the submitter and 
a new TS number for each TSCA section 5 notice to which the remittance 
applies, and the amount of the remittance that applies to each notice. 
Any remittance not having the identifying name and numbers described in 
this paragraph will be returned to the remitter.
    (4)(i) Each person who remits the fee identified in paragraph (b)(1) 
of this section for a PMN, consolidated PMN, intermediate PMN, or 
significant new use notice shall insert a check mark for the statement, 
``The company named in part 1, section A is a small business concern 
under 40 CFR 700.43 and has remitted a fee of $100 in accordance with 40 
CFR 700.45(b).'' under ``CERTIFICATION'' on page 2 of the Premanufacture 
Notice for New Chemical Substances (EPA Form 7710-25).
    (ii) Each person who remits the fee identified in paragraph (b)(1) 
of this section for an exemption application under TSCA section 5(h)(2) 
shall insert a check mark for the statement, ``The company named in part 
1, section A is a small business concern under 40 CFR 700.43 and has 
remitted a fee of $100 in accordance with 40 CFR 700.45(b).'' in the 
exemption application.
    (iii) Each person who remits the fee identified in paragraph (b)(1) 
of this section for an exemption notice under Sec. 723.175 of this 
chapter shall include the words, ``Each company identified in this 
notice is a small business concern under 40 CFR 700.43 and has remitted 
a fee of $100 in accordance with 40 CFR 700.45(b).'' in the 
certification required in Sec. 723.175(i)(1)(x) of this chapter.
    (iv) Each person who remits the fee identified in paragraph (b)(1) 
of this section for a MCAN for a microorganism shall insert a check mark 
for the

[[Page 8]]

statement, ``The company named in part 1, section A is a small business 
concern under 40 CFR 700.43 and has remitted a fee of $100 in accordance 
with 40 CFR 700.45(b).'' in the certification required in Sec. 
725.25(b) of this chapter.
    (5)(i) Each person who remits a fee identified in paragraph (b)(2) 
of this section for a PMN, consolidated PMN, intermediate PMN, or 
significant new use notice shall insert a check mark for the statement, 
``The company named in part 1, section A has remitted the fee specified 
in 40 CFR 700.45(b).'' under ``CERTIFICATION'' on page 2 of the 
Premanufacture Notice for New Chemical Substances (EPA Form 7710-25).
    (ii) Each person who remits a fee identified in paragraph (b)(2) of 
this section for an exemption application under TSCA section 5(h)(2) 
shall insert a check mark for the statement, ``The company named in part 
1, section A has remitted the fee specified in 40 CFR 700.45(b).'' in 
the exemption application.
    (iii) Each person who remits the fee identified in paragraph (b)(2) 
of this section for an exemption notice under Sec. 723.175 of this 
chapter shall include the words, ``Each company identified in this 
notice has remitted a fee of $2,500 in accordance with 40 CFR 
700.45(b).'' in the certification required in Sec. 723.175(i)(1)(x) of 
this chapter.
    (iv) Each person who remits the fee identified in paragraph (b)(1) 
of this section for a MCAN for a microorganism shall insert a check mark 
for the statement, ``The company named in part 1, section A is a small 
business concern under 40 CFR 700.43 and has remitted a fee of $100 in 
accordance with 40 CFR 700.45(b).'' in the certification required in 
Sec. 725.25(b) of this chapter.
    (f) Fee refunds. EPA will refund any fee paid for a section 5 notice 
whenever the Agency determines:
    (1) That the chemical substance that is the subject of a PMN, 
intermediate PMN, exemption application, or exemption notice is not a 
new chemical substance as of the date of submission of the notice.
    (2) In the case of a significant new use notice, that the notice was 
not required.
    (3) The notice is incomplete under either Sec. 720.65(c) or 725.33, 
of this chapter.
    (4) That as of the date of submission of the notice: the 
microorganism that is the subject of a MCAN is not a new microorganism; 
nor is the use involving the microorganism a significant new use.

[53 FR 31252, Aug. 17, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 21429, May 18, 1989; 58 
FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 62 FR 17932, Apr. 11, 1997; 75 FR 784, Jan. 6, 
2010]


<R05>
Sec. 700.49  Failure to remit fees.

    EPA will not consider a section 5 notice to be complete unless the 
appropriate certification under Sec. 700.45(e) is included and until 
the appropriate remittance under Sec. 700.45(b) has been sent to EPA as 
provided in Sec. 700.45(e) and received by EPA. EPA will notify the 
submitter that the section 5 notice is incomplete in accordance with 
Sec. Sec. 720.65(c) and 725.33 of this chapter.

[62 FR 17932, Apr. 11, 1997]


<R03>
PART 702_GENERAL PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES--Table of Contents



Subparts A-B [Reserved]

                         Subpart C_Citizen Suit

Sec.
702.60 Purpose.
702.61 Service of notice.
702.62 Contents of notice.

    Authority: 15 U.S.C. 2619.

    Source: 47 FR 2773, Jan. 19, 1982, unless otherwise noted.

Subparts A-B [Reserved]


<R04>
                         Subpart C_Citizen Suit


<R05>
Sec. 702.60  Purpose.

    Section 20 of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) authorizes any 
person to begin a civil action to compel performance by the 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) of TSCA non-discretionary acts or 
duties (section 20(a)(2)) or to restrain any violation of TSCA, or of 
any rule promulgated under sections 4, 5, or 6, or of any order issued 
under section 5 of TSCA (section 20(a)(1)). The purpose of this 
regulation is to prescribe procedures governing

[[Page 9]]

the giving of a notice of intent to file suit required by section 20(b) 
of TSCA as a prerequisite to beginning such civil actions.


<R05>
Sec. 702.61  Service of notice.

    (a) Notice as a prerequisite to suit. Under section 20 of TSCA, no 
civil action may be commenced by a citizen to restrain a violation of 
TSCA, or a rule or order thereunder, unless at least 60 days in advance 
the citizen has given notice of the intent to file suit to the 
Administrator and to the person who is alleged to have committed the 
violation. No civil action may be commenced by a citizen to compel the 
Administrator to perform any non-discretionary act or duty under TSCA, 
unless at least 60 days in advance the citizen has given notice of the 
intent to file suit to the Administrator. However, in the case of an 
alleged failure by the Administrator to file an action under section 7 
of TSCA, the citizen must give notice to the Administrator only 10 days 
in advance of filing the civil action.
    (b) Method of service. Notice of intent to file suit can be either 
personally served or served by certified mail--return receipt 
requested--to persons identified in paragraph (d) of this section.
    (c) Date of service. The effective date of service of a notice given 
in accordance with this rule shall be the date of the return receipt, if 
served by mail, or the date of receipt if personally served.
    (d) Persons to be served--(1) Violations of TSCA rules or TSCA 
order. (i) If the alleged violator is a private individual or a 
corporation, notice of intent to file suit shall be served on the 
individual or the owner or managing agent of the plant, facility, or 
activity alleged to be in violation. If the alleged violator is a 
corporation, a copy of the notice shall also be sent to the registered 
agent, if any, of such corporation in the State in which such violation 
is alleged to have occurred. Notice shall also be served on the 
Administrator of the EPA.
    (ii) If the alleged violator is a State or local government entity, 
notice of intent to file suit shall be served on the head of the agency. 
Notice shall also be served on the Administrator of the EPA, and a copy 
shall be sent to the Attorney General of the United States.
    (iii) If the alleged violator is a Federal agency, notice of intent 
to file suit shall be served on the head of the agency. Notice shall 
also be served on the Administrator of the EPA, and a copy shall be sent 
to the Attorney General of the United States.
    (2) Performance of non-discretionary TSCA acts or duties. Notice of 
intent to file suit shall be served on the Administrator of the EPA and 
a copy shall be sent to the Attorney General of the United States.
    (3) Address of persons to be served. (i) EPA Administrator: 1200 
Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460. (ii) Attorney General of 
the United States: 10th and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 
20530.


<R05>
Sec. 702.62  Contents of notice.

    (a) Violation of TSCA rule or TSCA order. Notice of intent to file 
suit regarding an alleged violation of TSCA or any rule promulgated 
under sections 4, 5, or 6, or an order issued under section 5, shall 
include sufficient information to permit the recipient to identify:
    (1) The specific provision of TSCA or of the rule or order under 
TSCA alleged to have been violated.
    (2) The activity alleged to constitute a violation.
    (3) The person or persons responsible for the alleged violation.
    (4) The location of the alleged violation.
    (5) The date or dates of the alleged violation as closely as the 
citizen is able to specify them.
    (6) The full name, address, and telephone number of the citizen 
giving notice.
    (b) Failure to act. Notice regarding an alleged failure of the 
Administrator to perform any act or duty which is not discretionary 
shall:
    (1) Identify the specific provision of TSCA which requires an act or 
creates a duty.
    (2) Describe with reasonable specificity the action taken or not 
taken by the Administrator which is alleged to constitute a failure to 
perform the act or duty.

[[Page 10]]

    (3) State the full name, address, and telephone number of the 
citizen giving the notice.
    (c) Identification of Counsel. The notice shall state the name, 
address, and telephone number of the Legal Counsel, if any, representing 
the citizen giving the notice.


<R03>
PART 704_REPORTING AND RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS--Table of Contents



  Subpart A_General Reporting and Recordkeeping Provisions for Section 
                    8(a) Information-Gathering Rules

Sec.
704.1 Scope.
704.3 Definitions.
704.5 Exemptions.
704.7 Confidential business information claims.
704.9 Where to send reports.
704.11 Recordkeeping.
704.13 Compliance and enforcement.

      Subpart B_Chemical-Specific Reporting and Recordkeeping Rules

704.25 11-Aminoundecanoic acid.
704.33 P-tert-butylbenzoic acid (P-TBBA), p-tert-butyltoluene (P-TBT) 
          and p-tert-butylbenzaldehyde (P-TBB).
704.43 Chlorinated naphthalenes.
704.45 Chlorinated terphenyl.
704.95 Phosphonic acid, [1,2-ethanediyl-bis[nitrilobis-
          (methylene)]]tetrakis-(EDTMPA) and its salts.
704.102 Hexachloronorbornadiene.
704.104 Hexafluoropropylene oxide.
704.175 4,4'-methylenebis(2-chloroaniline) (MBOCA).

    Authority: 15 U.S.C. 2607(a).


<R04>
  Subpart A_General Reporting and Recordkeeping Provisions for Section 
                    8(a) Information-Gathering Rules


<R05>
Sec. 704.1  Scope.

    (a) This part specifies reporting and recordkeeping procedures under 
section 8(a) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) for 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of chemical substances and 
mixtures (hereafter collectively referred to as substances) that are 
identified in subpart B of this part. The reporting and recordkeeping 
provisions in subpart A of this part apply throughout this part unless 
revised in any other subpart.
    (b) Subpart B of this part sets out chemical-specific reporting and 
recordkeeping requirements under section 8(a) of TSCA.

[53 FR 51715, Dec. 22, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 31920, June 19, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 704.3  Definitions.

    All definitions as set forth in section 3 of TSCA apply in this 
part. In addition, the following definitions are provided for the 
purposes of this part.
    Annual means the corporate fiscal year.
    Article means a manufactured item (1) which is formed to a specific 
shape or design during manufacture, (2) which has end use function(s) 
dependent in whole or in part upon its shape or design during end use, 
and (3) which has either no change of chemical composition during its 
end use or only those changes of composition which have no commercial 
purpose separate from that of the article, and that result from a 
chemical reaction that occurs upon end use of other chemical substances, 
mixtures, or articles; except that fluids and particles are not 
considered articles regardless of shape or design.
    Byproduct means a chemical substance produced without a separate 
commercial intent during the manufacture, processing, use, or disposal 
of another chemical substance(s) or mixture(s).
    CAS Number means Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number.
    Coproduct means a chemical substance produced for a commercial 
purpose during the manufacture, processing, use, or disposal of another 
chemical substance or mixture.
    Customer means any person to whom a manufacturer, importer, or 
processor directly distributes any quantity of a chemical substance, 
mixture, mixture containing the substance or mixture, or article 
containing the substance or mixture, whether or not a sale is involved.
    Domestic means within the geographical boundaries of the 50 United 
States, including the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto

[[Page 11]]

Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana 
Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
    Enclosed process means a manufacturing or processing operation that 
is designed and operated so that there is no intentional release into 
the environment of any substance present in the operation. An operation 
with fugitive, inadvertent, or emergency pressure relief releases 
remains an enclosed process so long as measures are taken to prevent 
worker exposure to and environmental contamination from the releases.
    EPA means the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
    Import means to import for commercial purposes.
    Import for commercial purposes means to import with the purpose of 
obtaining an immediate or eventual commercial advantage for the 
importer, and includes the importation of any amount of a chemical 
substance or mixture. If a chemical substance or mixture containing 
impurities is imported for commercial purposes, then those impurities 
also are imported for commercial purposes.
    Import in bulk form means to import a chemical substance (other than 
as part of a mixture or article) in any quantity, in cans, bottles, 
drums, barrels, packages, tanks, bags, or other containers, if the 
chemical substance is intended to be removed from the container and the 
substance has an end use or commercial purpose separate from the 
container.
    Importer means (1) any person who imports any chemical substance or 
any chemical substance as part of a mixture or article into the customs 
territory of the United States, and includes:
    (i) The person primarily liable for the payment of any duties on the 
merchandise, or
    (ii) An authorized agent acting on his behalf.
    (2) Importer also includes, as appropriate:
    (i) The consignee.
    (ii) The importer of record.
    (iii) The actual owner if an actual owner's declaration and 
superseding bond have been filed in accordance with 19 CFR 141.20.
    (iv) The transferee, if the right to draw merchandise in a bonded 
warehouse has been transferred in accordance with subpart C of 19 CFR 
part 144.
    (3) For the purposes of this definition, the customs territory of 
the United States consists of the 50 States, Puerto Rico, and the 
District of Columbia.
    Impurity means a chemical substance which is unintentionally present 
with another chemical substance.
    Intermediate means any chemical substance that is consumed, in whole 
or in part, in chemical reactions used for the intentional manufacture 
of other chemical substances or mixtures, or that is intentionally 
present for the purpose of altering the rates of such chemical 
reactions.
    Known to or reasonably ascertainable by means all information in a 
person's possession or control, plus all information that a reasonable 
person similarly situated might be expected to possess, control, or 
know.
    Manufacture means to manufacture for commercial purposes.
    Manufacture for commercial purposes means: (1) To import, produce, 
or manufacture with the purpose of obtaining an immediate or eventual 
commercial advantage for the manufacturer, and includes among other 
things, such ``manufacture'' of any amount of a chemical substance or 
mixture:
    (i) For commercial distribution, including for test marketing.
    (ii) For use by the manufacturer, including use for product research 
and development, or as an intermediate.
    (2) Manufacture for commercial purposes also applies to substances 
that are produced coincidentally during the manufacture, processing, 
use, or disposal of another substance or mixture, including both 
byproducts that are separated from that other substance or mixture and 
impurities that remain in that substance or mixture. Such byproducts and 
impurities may, or may not, in themselves have commercial value. They 
are nonetheless produced for the purpose of obtaining a commercial 
advantage since they are part of the manufacture of a chemical product 
for a commercial purpose.
    Manufacturer means a person who imports, produces, or manufactures a

[[Page 12]]

chemical substance. A person who extracts a component chemical substance 
from a previously existing chemical substance or a complex combination 
of substances is a manufacturer of that component chemical substance.
    Non-isolated intermediate means any intermediate that is not 
intentionally removed from the equipment in which it is manufactured, 
including the reaction vessel in which it is manufactured, equipment 
which is ancillary to the reaction vessel, and any equipment through 
which the substance passes during a continuous flow process, but not 
including tanks or other vessels in which the substance is stored after 
its manufacture. Mechanical or gravity transfer through a closed system 
is not considered to be intentional removal, but storage or transfer to 
shipping containers ``isolates'' the substance by removing it from 
process equipment in which it is manufactured.
    Own or control means ownership of 50 percent or more of a company's 
voting stock or other equity rights, or the power to control the 
management and policies of that company. A company may own or control 
one or more sites. A company may be owned or controlled by a foreign or 
domestic parent company.
    Parent company is a company that owns or controls another company.
    Person includes any individual, firm, company, corporation, joint 
venture, partnership, sole proprietorship, association, or any other 
business entity; any State or political subdivision thereof; any 
municipality; any interstate body; and any department, agency, or 
instrumentality of the Federal Government.
    Possession or control means in the possession or control of any 
person, or of any subsidiary, partnership in which the person is a 
general partner, parent company, or any company or partnership which the 
parent company owns or controls, if the subsidiary, parent company, or 
other company or partnership is associated with the person in the 
research, development, test marketing, or commercial marketing of the 
substance in question. Information is in the possession or control of a 
person if it is:
    (1) In the person's own files including files maintained by 
employees of the person in the course of their employment.
    (2) In commercially available data bases to which the person has 
purchased access.
    (3) Maintained in the files in the course of employment by other 
agents of the person who are associated with research, development, test 
marketing, or commercial marketing of the chemical substance in 
question.
    Process means to process for commercial purposes.
    Process for commercial purposes means the preparation of a chemical 
substance or mixture after its manufacture for distribution in commerce 
with the purpose of obtaining an immediate or eventual commercial 
advantage for the processor. Processing of any amount of a chemical 
substance or mixture is included in this definition. If a chemical 
substance or mixture containing impurities is processed for commercial 
purposes, then the impurities also are processed for commercial 
purposes.
    Processor means any person who processes a chemical substance or 
mixture.
    Production volume means the quantity of a substance which is 
produced by a manufacturer, as measured in kilograms or pounds.
    Propose to manufacture, import, or process means that a person has 
made a firm management decision to commit financial resources for the 
manufacture, import, or processing of a specified chemical substance or 
mixture.
    Site means a contiguous property unit. Property divided only by a 
public right-of-way shall be considered one site. There may be more than 
one plant on a single site. The site for a person who imports a 
substance is the site of the operating unit within the person's 
organization which is directly responsible for importing the substance 
and which controls the import transaction and may in some cases be the 
organization's headquarters office in the United States.
    Small manufacturer or importer means a manufacturer or importer that 
meets either of the following standards:
    (1) First standard. A manufacturer or importer of a substance is 
small if its

[[Page 13]]

total annual sales, when combined with those of its parent company (if 
any), are less than $40 million. However, if the annual production or 
importation volume of a particular substance at any individual site 
owned or controlled by the manufacturer or importer is greater than 
45,400 kilograms (100,000 pounds), the manufacturer or importer shall 
not qualify as small for purposes of reporting on the production or 
importation of that substance at that site, unless the manufacturer or 
importer qualifies as small under standard (2) of this definition.
    (2) Second standard. A manufacturer or importer of a substance is 
small if its total annual sales, when combined with those of its parent 
company (if any), are less than $4 million, regardless of the quantity 
of substances produced or imported by that manufacturer or importer.
    (3) Inflation index. EPA shall make use of the Producer Price Index 
for Chemicals and Allied Products, as compiled by the U.S. Bureau of 
Labor Statistics, for purposes of determining the need to adjust the 
total annual sales values and for determining new sales values when 
adjustments are made. EPA may adjust the total annual sales values 
whenever the Agency deems it necessary to do so, provided that the 
Producer Price Index for Chemicals and Allied Products has changed more 
than 20 percent since either the most recent previous change in sales 
values or the date of promulgation of this rule, whichever is later. EPA 
shall provide Federal Register notification when changing the total 
annual sales values.
    Small quantities solely for research and development (or ``small 
quantities solely for purposes of scientific experimentation or analysis 
or chemical research on, or analysis of, such substance or another 
substance, including such research or analysis for the development of a 
product'') means quantities of a chemical substance manufactured, 
imported, or processed or proposed to be manufactured, imported, or 
processed solely for research and development that are not greater than 
reasonably necessary for such purposes.
    Substance means either a chemical substance or mixture unless 
otherwise indicated.
    Test marketing means the distribution in commerce of no more than a 
predetermined amount of a chemical substance, mixture, article 
containing that chemical substance or mixture, or a mixture containing 
that substance, by a manufacturer or processor, to no more than a 
defined number of potential customers to explore market capability in a 
competitive situation during a predetermined testing period prior to the 
broader distribution of that chemical substance, mixture, or article in 
commerce.
    Total annual sales means the total annual revenue (in dollars) 
generated by the sale of all products of a company. Total annual sales 
must include the total annual sales revenue of all sites owned or 
controlled by that company and the total annual sales revenue of that 
company's subsidiaries and foreign or domestic parent company, if any.
    TSCA means the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.

[53 FR 51715, Dec. 22, 1988, as amended at 76 FR 50858, Aug. 16, 2011; 
76 FR 54933, Sept. 6, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 704.5  Exemptions.

    A person who is subject to reporting requirements for a substance 
identified in this part is exempt from those requirements to the extent 
that the person and that person's use of the substance is described in 
this section. This section is superseded by any TSCA section 8(a) rule 
that adds to, removes, or revises the exemptions described in this 
section.
    (a) Articles. A person who imports, processes, or proposes to import 
or process a substance identified in this part solely as part of an 
article is exempt from the reporting requirements of this part with 
regard to that substance.
    (b) Byproducts. A person who manufactures, imports, or proposes to 
manufacture or import a substance identified in this part solely as a 
byproduct is exempt from the reporting requirements of this part.
    (c) Impurities. A person who manufactures, imports, processes, or 
proposes

[[Page 14]]

to manufacture, import, or process a substance identified in this part 
solely as an impurity is exempt from the reporting requirements of this 
part.
    (d) Non-isolated intermediate. A person who manufactures or proposes 
to manufacture a substance identified in this part solely as a non-
isolated intermediate is exempt from the reporting requirements of this 
part.
    (e) Research and development. A person who manufactures, imports, 
processes, or proposes to manufacture, import, or process a substance 
identified in this part only in small quantities solely for research and 
development is exempt from the reporting requirements of this part.
    (f) Small manufacturers and importers. Small manufacturers and 
importers are exempt from the reporting requirements of this part.

[53 FR 51717, Dec. 22, 1988]


<R05>
Sec. 704.7  Confidential business information claims.

    (a) Any person submitting a notice under this rule may assert a 
business confidentiality claim covering all or any part of the notice. 
Any information covered by a claim will be disclosed by EPA only to the 
extent and by means of the procedures set forth in part 2 of this title.
    (b) If no claim accompanies the notice at the time it is submitted 
to EPA, the notice will be placed in an open file available to the 
public without further notice to the respondent.
    (c) To assert a claim of confidentiality for data contained in a 
notice, the respondent must submit two copies of the notice.
    (1) One copy of the notice must be complete. In that copy the 
respondent must indicate what data, if any, are claimed as confidential 
by marking the specific information on each page with a label such as 
``confidential'', ``proprietary'', or ``trade secret''.
    (2) If some data in the notice are claimed as confidential, the 
respondent must submit a second copy. The second copy must be complete 
except that all information claimed as confidential in the first copy 
must be deleted.
    (3) The first copy of the notice will be for internal use by EPA. 
The second copy will be placed in an open file to be available to the 
public.
    (4) Failure to furnish a second copy of the notice when information 
is claimed as confidential in the first copy will be considered a 
presumptive waiver of the claim of confidentiality. EPA will notify the 
respondent by certified mail that a finding of a presumptive waiver of 
the claim of confidentiality has been made. The respondent has 15 days 
from the date of receipt of notification to submit the required second 
copy. Failure to submit the second copy will cause EPA to place the 
first copy in the public file.
    (d) In submitting a claim of confidentiality, a person attests to 
the truth of the following four statements concerning all information 
which is claimed confidential:
    (1) My company has taken measures to protect the confidentiality of 
the information, and it intends to continue to take such measures.
    (2) The information is not, and has not been, reasonably obtainable 
without our consent by other persons (other than government bodies) by 
use of legitimate means (other than discovery based on a showing of 
special need in a judicial or quasi-judicial proceeding).
    (3) The information is not publicly available elsewhere.
    (4) Disclosure of the information would cause substantial harm to 
our competitive position.

[48 FR 23420, May 25, 1983, as amended at 53 FR 51717, Dec. 22, 1988]


<R05>
Sec. 704.9  Where to send reports.

    Reports must be submitted by certified mail to the Document Control 
Office (DCO) (7407M), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics (OPPT), 
Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., 
Washington, DC 20460-0001, ATTN: 8(a) Reporting.

[60 FR 34463, July 3, 1995, as amended at 71 FR 33641, June 12, 2006]


<R05>
Sec. 704.11  Recordkeeping.

    Each person who is subject to the reporting requirements of this 
part must retain the following records for 3 years following the 
creation or compilation of the record.

[[Page 15]]

    (a) A copy of each report submitted by the person in response to the 
requirements of this part.
    (b) Materials and documentation sufficient to verify or reconstruct 
the values submitted in the report.
    (c) A copy of each notice sent by the person, return receipt 
requested, to that person's customers for the purpose of notifying their 
customers of the customer's reporting obligations under this part.
    (d) All return receipts signed by the person's customers who 
received the notice described in paragraph (c) of this section.

[53 FR 51717, Dec. 22, 1988, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 704.13  Compliance and enforcement.

    Violators of the requirements of this part may be subject to civil 
administrative penalties up to $25,000 per day of violation or criminal 
prosecution, as provided in sections 15 and 16 of TSCA. In addition, 
under section 17, EPA may seek judicial relief to compel submission of 
required information.

[53 FR 51717, Dec. 22, 1989]


<R04>
      Subpart B_Chemical-Specific Reporting and Recordkeeping Rules


<R05>
Sec. 704.25  11-Aminoundecanoic acid.

    (a) Definitions--(1) 11-AA means the chemical substance 11-
aminoundecanoic acid, CAS Number 2432-99-7.
    (2) Enclosed process means a process that is designed and operated 
so that there is no intentional release of any substance present in the 
process. A process with fugitive, inadvertent, or emergency pressure 
relief releases remains an enclosed process so long as measures are 
taken to prevent worker exposure to an environmental contamination from 
the releases.
    (3) Internal subunit means a subunit that is covalently linked to at 
least two other subunits. Internal subunits of polymer molecules are 
chemically derived from monomer molecules that have formed covalent 
links between two or more other molecules.
    (4) Monomer means a chemical substance that has the capacity to form 
links between two or more other molecules.
    (5) Polymer means a chemical substance that consists of at least a 
simple weight majority of polymer molecules but consists of less than a 
simple weight majority of molecules with the same molecular weight. 
Collectively, such polymer molecules must be distributed over a range of 
molecular weights wherein differences in molecular weight are primarily 
attributable to differences in the number of internal subunits.
    (6) Polymer molecule means a molecule which includes at least four 
covalently linked subunits, at least two of which are internal subunits.
    (7) Small processor means a processor that meets either the standard 
in paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section or the standard in paragraph 
(a)(7)(ii) of this section.
    (i) First standard. A processor of a chemical substance is small if 
its total annual sales, when combined with those of its parent company, 
if any, are less than $40 million. However, if the annual processing 
volume of a particular chemical substance at any individual site owned 
or controlled by the processor is greater than 45,400 kilograms (100,000 
pounds), the processor shall not qualify as small for purposes of 
reporting on the processing of that chemical substance at that site, 
unless the processor qualifies as small under paragraph (a)(7)(ii) of 
this section.
    (ii) Second standard. A processor of a chemical substance is small 
if its total annual sales, when combined with those of its parent 
company (if any), are less than $4 million, regardless of the quantity 
of the particular chemical substance processed by that company.
    (iii) Inflation index. EPA will use the Inflation Index described in 
the definition of small manufacturer set forth in Sec. 704.3, for 
purposes of adjusting the total annual sales values of this small 
processor definition. EPA will provide notice in the Federal Register 
when changing the total annual sales values of this definition.
    (8) Subunit means an atom or group of associated atoms chemically 
derived from corresponding reactants.

[[Page 16]]

    (b) Persons who must report. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of 
this section, the following persons are subject to this section:
    (1) Persons who manufacture or propose to manufacture 11-AA:
    (i) For use as an intermediate in the manufacture of polymers in an 
enclosed process when it is expected that the 11-AA will be fully 
polymerized during the manufacturing process, or
    (ii) For use as a component in photoprocessing solutions.
    (2) Persons who import or propose to import 11-AA:
    (i) For use as an intermediate in the manufacture of polymers in an 
enclosed process when it is expected that the 11-AA will be fully 
polymerized during the manufacturing process, or
    (ii) For use as a component in photoprocessing solutions.
    (3) Persons who process or propose to process 11-AA:
    (i) For use as an intermediate in the manufacture of polymers in an 
enclosed process when it is expected that the 11-AA will be fully 
polymerized during the manufacturing process, or
    (ii) For use as a component in photoprocessing solutions.
    (c) Persons not subject to this section. The following persons are 
not subject to this section:
    (1) Small manufacturers (includes importers) as described in Sec. 
704.3.
    (2) Small processors.
    (3) Persons described in Sec. 704.5.
    (4) Persons who, at any time during the 3-year period ending July 
22, 1986, manufactured, imported, or processed 11-AA:
    (i) For use as an intermediate in the manufacture of polymers in an 
enclosed process when it is expected that the 11-AA will be fully 
polymerized during the manufacturing process, or
    (ii) For use as a component in photoprocessing solutions.
    (d) What information to report. Persons identified in paragraph (b) 
of this section must submit a Premanufacture Notice Form (EPA Form 7710-
25).
    (e) When to report. (1) Persons who intend to manufacture, import, 
or process 11-AA for use as an intermediate in the manufacture of 
polymers in an enclosed process when it is expected that the 11-AA will 
be fully polymerized during the manufacturing process or for use as a 
component in photoprocessing solutions must notify EPA within 30 days 
after making a firm management decision to commit financial resources 
for the manufacturing, importing, or processing of 11-AA.
    (2) Persons who initiated manufacturing, importing, or processing of 
11-AA for use as an intermediate in the manufacture of polymers in an 
enclosed process when it is expected that the 11-AA will be fully 
polymerized during the manufacturing process, or for use as a component 
in photoprocessing solutions during the time period between July 22, 
1986 and July 13, 1987 must notify EPA by August 10, 1987.
    (f) Recordkeeping. Persons subject to the reporting requirements of 
this section must retain documentation of information contained in their 
reports for a period of 5 years from the date of submission of the 
report.
    (g) Where to send reports. Reports must be submitted by certified 
mail to the Document Control Office (DCO) (7407M), Office of Pollution 
Prevention and Toxics (OPPT), Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 
Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460-0001, ATTN: 11-AA 
Notification.

[52 FR 19864, May 28, 1987, as amended at 60 FR 16308, Mar. 29, 1995; 60 
FR 34463, July 3, 1995; 71 FR 33641, June 12, 2006]


<R05>
Sec. 704.33  P-tert-butylbenzoic acid (P-TBBA), p-tert-butyltoluene
(P-TBT) and p-tert-butylbenzaldehyde (P-TBB).

    (a) Definitions--(1) P-TBBA means the substance p-tert-butylbenzoic 
acid, also identified as 4-(1,1-dimethylethyl)benzoic acid, CAS No. 98-
73-7.
    (2) P-TBT means the substance p-tert-butyltoluene, also identified 
as 1-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-4-methylbenzene, CAS No. 98-51-1.
    (3) P-TBB means the substance p-tert-butylbenzaldehyde, also 
identified as 4-(1,1-dimethylethyl)benzaldehyde, CAS No. 939-97-9.
    (4) Small processor means a processor that meets either the standard 
in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section or the

[[Page 17]]

standard in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section.
    (i) First standard. A processor of a chemical substance is small if 
its total annual sales, when combined with those of its parent company, 
if any, are less than $40 million. However, if the annual processing 
volume of a particular chemical substance at any individual site owned 
or controlled by the processor is greater than 45,400 kilograms (100,000 
pounds), the processor shall not qualify as small for purposes of 
reporting on the processing of that chemical substance at that site, 
unless the processor qualifies as small under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of 
this section.
    (ii) Second standard. A processor of a chemical substance is small 
if its total annual sales, when combined with those of its parent 
company (if any), are less than $4 million, regardless of the quantity 
of the particular chemical substance processed by that company.
    (iii) Inflation index. EPA shall use the Inflation Index described 
in the definition of small manufacturer that is set forth in Sec. 
704.3, for purposes of adjusting the total annual sales values of this 
small processor definition. EPA shall provide Federal Register 
notification when changing the total annual sales values of this 
definition.
    (b) Persons who must report. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of 
this section, the following persons are subject to the reporting 
requirements of this rule; a person may become subject to this rule more 
than once, for more than one substance or under more than one of the 
criteria listed in this paragraph (b).
    (1) Persons who manufactured, imported, or processed P-TBBA, P-TBT, 
and/or P-TBB for commercial purposes during the person's latest complete 
corporate fiscal year prior to June 25, 1986. For purposes of this 
provision, processors of P-TBBA, P-TBT, and/or P-TBB shall include only 
those persons who processed the substances other than as non-isolated 
intermediates.
    (2) Persons who commence manufacture or importation of P-TBBA, P-
TBT, and/or P-TBB for commercial purposes after June 25, 1986. This 
provision is applicable to persons who cease manufacture or importation 
of P-TBBA, P-TBT, and/or P-TBB after June 25, 1986 and then subsequently 
resume manufacture or importation of the substance(s).
    (3) Persons who process P-TBBA, P-TBT, and/or P-TBB for commercial 
purposes in any way other than as a non-isolated intermediate after June 
25, 1986.
    (c) Persons not subject to this rule. In addition to the persons 
described in Sec. 704.5, small processors, as defined in paragraph 
(a)(4) of this section, are not subject to this rule.
    (d) Information to report. Persons subject to this rule as described 
in paragraph (b) of this section shall report information to EPA as 
specified in this paragraph (d). Respondents to this rule shall report 
all information that is known to or reasonably ascertainable by the 
person reporting. For purposes of importer reporting under this 
paragraph, a site is the operating unit within the person's organization 
which is directly responsible for importing the substance and which 
controls the import transaction. The import site may in some cases be 
the organization's headquarters office in the United States.
    (1) All manufacturers, importers, and processors specified in 
paragraph (b) of this section shall report their name and headquarters 
address.
    (2) All manufacturers, importers, and processors specified in 
paragraph (b) of this section shall report the name, address, and office 
telephone number (including area code) of their principal technical 
contact.
    (3) All manufacturers, importers, and processors specified in 
paragraph (b) of this section shall report the name and address of each 
site where P-TBBA, P-TBT, and/or P-TBB is manufactured, imported, or 
processed.
    (4) All manufacturers, importers, and processors specified in 
paragraph (b)(1) of this section only shall report the information 
described in this paragraph (d)(4). Respondents to this paragraph (d)(4) 
shall report separately for each substance that they manufacture, 
import, or process, and for each site at which they do so. However, if 
the information to be reported in response to this paragraph (d)(4) is 
the same for different sites, the respondent need not report separately 
for each site but need only notify EPA that the information

[[Page 18]]

is the same for each site. The information to be reported under this 
paragraph (d)(4) shall cover the respondent's latest complete corporate 
fiscal year prior to June 25, 1986. Respondents to this paragraph (d)(4) 
shall report the following information:
    (i) The total quantity (by weight) of P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB 
manufactured, imported, or processed for commercial purposes per site.
    (ii) A narrative description of the manufacturing, importing, or 
processing operation(s) involving P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB at each site.
    (iii) A narrative description of worker activities involving P-TBBA, 
P-TBT, or P-TBB at each site, including the number of workers 
potentially exposed to each substance and, if applicable, the number of 
workers potentially exposed to more than one substance.
    (iv) The potential routes of worker exposure to P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-
TBB at each site (e.g., inhalation, ingestion, dermal absorption).
    (v) Available monitoring data from employee breathing zones with 
potential exposure to P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB at each site, including a 
description of the method of monitoring, the number of samples taken, 
and the potential number of workers similarly exposed for each worker 
job category. Respondents to this paragraph (d)(4)(v) shall submit data 
showing a range of 8-hour time weighted averages (TWAs), provided that 
the data are available in that form. Respondents also shall submit a 
calculated geometric mean of these data, with an explanation of the 
method by which the mean was derived. However, if the monitoring data 
are not available in the form of 8-hour TWAs, respondents shall submit 
raw sample data results and the duration time of sampling for each job 
category.
    (vi) A narrative description of any personal protective equipment 
and/or engineering controls used to prevent exposure to P-TBBA, P-TBT, 
or P-TBB at each site.
    (vii) A listing of the estimated quantities of P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-
TBB released directly into air, water, or land from each site.
    (viii) A narrative description of the times during the 
manufacturing, importing, or processing operations involving P-TBBA, P-
TBT, or P-TBB when environmental release occurs at each site.
    (ix) A narrative description of any engineering controls used to 
prevent environmental release of P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB at each site.
    (x) A narrative description of all known end uses of any P-TBBA, P-
TBT, or P-TBB that is manufactured, imported, or processed by the 
respondent. The narrative need not include customer identity.
    (xi) A narrative description of the methods used at each site for 
disposing of wastes generated during the manufacture, importation, or 
processing of P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB, including the quantity and 
content of such wastes (per site), the method of disposal, and an 
identification of the disposal site(s).
    (5) All manufactureres, importers, and processors specified in 
paragraph (b) of this section shall report the information described in 
this paragraph (d)(5). Respondents to this paragraph (d)(5) shall report 
separately for each substance that they intend to manufacture, import, 
or process during the first 2 years following the date on which they 
become subject to this rule. The data reported under this paragraph 
(d)(5) shall cover that 2-year period. Respondents to this paragraph 
(d)(5) shall report separately for each site at which they intend to 
manufacture, import, or process each substance. Respondents need not 
comply with this paragraph (d)(5) if the information to be reported is 
identical to that reported by the respondent under paragraph (d)(4) of 
this section, provided that the respondent makes note of that fact to 
EPA. Respondents to this paragraph (d)(5) shall report the following 
information:
    (i) An estimate of the total quantity (by weight) of P-TBBA, P-TBT, 
or P-TBB that the respondent intends to manufacture, import, or process 
for commercial purposes per site during each of the first 2 years 
following the date on which the respondent becomes subject to this rule.
    (ii) A narrative description of the intended manufacturing, 
importing, or processing activities involving P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB at 
each site

[[Page 19]]

during the first 2 years following the date on which the respondent 
becomes subject to this rule. The description shall include a summary of 
the intended manufacturing, importing, or processing operation(s); a 
summary of intended worker activities involving the substances, 
including an estimate of the number of persons anticipated to be exposed 
annually to P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB (per site) during the 2-year period, 
the anticipated routes of worker exposure to the substances (e.g., 
inhalation, ingestion, dermal absorption); and a summary of any personal 
protective equipment and/or engineering controls that the respondent 
intends to use to prevent exposure to the substances.
    (iii) A narrative description of anticipated environmental releases 
of P-TBBA, P-TBT, or P-TBB at each site from the manufacture, 
importation, or processing of these substances during the first 2 years 
following the date on which the respondent becomes subject to this rule. 
The narrative shall include the anticipated quantities of each substance 
released directly into air, water, or land, the anticipated routes of 
environmental release, and any intended engineering controls to be used 
to prevent environmental release of the substances.
    (iv) A narrative description of all anticipated end uses or P-TBBA, 
P-TBT, or P-TBB resulting from the respondent's manufacture, 
importation, or processing of the substances during the first 2 years 
following the date on which the respondent becomes subject to this rule. 
The summary need not include customer identity.
    (v) A narrative summary of the anticipated disposal of wastes 
generated from the manufacture, importation, or processing of P-TBBA, P-
TBT, or P-TBB during the first 2 years following the date on which the 
respondent becomes subject to this rule. The summary shall include the 
anticipated quantity and content of such wastes (per site), the intended 
method of disposal, and an identification of intended disposal site(s).
    (e) When to report. Persons subject to this rule must submit the 
requisite information to EPA within 60 days of becoming subject to the 
rule under the standards set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
    (f) Certification. Persons subject to this rule must attach the 
following statement to any information submitted to EPA in response to 
this rule: ``I hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge and 
belief, all of the attached information is complete and accurate.'' This 
statement shall be signed and dated by the company's principal technical 
contact.
    (g) Recordkeeping. Persons subject to the reporting requirements of 
this section must retain documentation of information contained in their 
reports for a period of 5 years from the date of the submission of the 
report.

[51 FR 17339, May 12, 1986; 51 FR 18323, May 19, 1986, as amended at 52 
FR 20083, May 29, 1987; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 704.43  Chlorinated naphthalenes.

    (a) Definitions--(1) Extent of chlorination means the percent by 
weight of chlorine.
    (2) Import means to import in bulk form or as part of a mixture.
    (3) Isomeric ratio means the relative amounts of each isomeric 
chlorinated naphthalene that composes the chemical substance; and for 
each isomer the relative amounts of each chlorinated naphthalene 
designated by the position of the chlorine atom(s) on the naphthalene.
    (4) Polychlorinated biphenyl means any chemical substance that is 
limited to the biphenyl molecule and that has been chlorinated to 
varying degrees.
    (5) Small manufacturer means a manufacturer (including importers) 
who meets either paragraph (a)(5) (i) or (ii) of this section:
    (i) A manufacturer of a chemical substance is small if its total 
annual sales, when combined with those of its parent company (if any), 
are less than $40 million. However, if the annual production volume of a 
particular chemical substance at any individual site owned or controlled 
by the manufacturer is greater than 45,400 kilograms (100,000 pounds), 
the manufacturer shall not qualify as small for purposes of reporting on 
the production of that chemical substance at that site, unless the 
manufacturer qualifies as small under paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this 
section.

[[Page 20]]

    (ii) A manufacturer of a chemical substance is small if its total 
annual sales, when combined with those of its parent company (if any), 
are less than $4 million, regardless of the quantity of the particular 
chemical substance produced by that manufacturer.
    (iii) For imported mixtures containing a chemical substance 
identified in paragraph (b) of this section, the 45,400 kilograms 
(100,000 pounds) standard in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section applies 
only to the amount of the chemical substance in a mixture and not the 
other components of the mixture.
    (6) Waste means any solid liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous 
material that results from the production of a chemical substance 
identified in paragraph (b) of this section and which is to be disposed.
    (b) Substances for which reports must be submitted.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
        CAS registry number                  Chemical substance
------------------------------------------------------------------------
 90-13-1..........................  Naphthalene, 1-chloro-
 91-58-7..........................  Naphthalene, 2-chloro-
 1321-64-8........................  Naphthalene, pentachloro-
 1321-65-9........................  Naphthalene, trichloro-
 1335-87-1........................  Naphthalene, hexachloro-
 1335-88-2........................  Naphthalene, tetrachloro-
 1825-30-5........................  Naphthalene, 1,5-dichloro-
 1825-31-6........................  Naphthalene, 1,4-dichloro-
 2050-69-3........................  Naphthalene, 1,2-dichloro-
 2050-72-8........................  Naphthalene, 1,6-dichloro-
 2050-73-9........................  Naphthalene, 1,7-dichloro-
 2050-74-0........................  Naphthalene, 1,8-dichloro-
 2050-75-1........................  Naphthalene, 2,3-dichloro-
 2065-70-5........................  Naphthalene, 2,6-dichloro-
 2198-75-6........................  Naphthalene, 1,3-dichloro-
 2198-77-8........................  Naphthalene, 2,7-dichloro-
 2234-13-1........................  Naphthalene, octachloro-
25586-43-0........................  Naphthalene, chloro-
32241-08-0........................  Naphthalene, heptachloro-
70776-03-3........................  Naphthalene, chloro derivatives.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (c) Persons who must report. (1) Persons who are manufacturing or 
importing a chemical substance identified in paragraph (b) of this 
section on October 8, 1984.
    (2) Persons who propose to import a chemical substance identified in 
paragraph (b) of this section on or after October 8, 1984.
    (3) Persons who manufacture a chemical substance identified in 
paragraph (b) of this section after October 8, 1984.
    (4) A person is required to report only once for each chemical 
substance identified in paragraph (b) of this section.
    (d) Persons exempt from reporting. (1) Small manufacturers.
    (2) Persons described in Sec. 704.5.
    (e) What information to report. Persons described in paragraph (c) 
of this section must notify EPA of current or prospective manufacture or 
import. The notice must include, to the extent that it is known to or 
reasonably ascertainable by the person making the report, the following 
information:
    (1) Company name and address.
    (2) Name, address, and telephone number of the principal technical 
contact.
    (3) For chemical substances proposed to be imported, the proposed 
date of import.
    (4) A description of the use(s) or intended use(s) for the chemical 
substance.
    (5) A description of the isomeric ratio and extent of chlorination 
of the chemical substance and the impurity level of polychlorinated 
biphenyls.
    (6) The quantity (by weight) manufactured or imported within 12 
months prior to October 8, 1984, if any, and the estimated quantity (by 
weight) to be manufactured or imported for the first 3 years following 
the date of the report or the date of the intended start of import 
whichever occurs later.
    (7) The number of persons exposed to the chemical substance during 
manufacture, import, processing, distribution in commerce, use, and 
disposal.
    (8) If a manufacturer's waste contains one or more of the chemical 
substances identified in paragraph (b) of this section, the manufacturer 
must:
    (i) Provide the quantity (by weight) of the chemical substances 
identified in paragraph (b) of this section present in the waste.
    (ii) Identify the constituents of the waste and their 
concentrations,
    (iii) State the rate of waste generation as a percentage of 
production volume,
    (iv) Describe where in the manufacturing process the waste is 
generated, and
    (v) Describe the method for disposal of the waste.
    (f) When to report. (1) Persons who are manufacturing or importing a 
chemical substance identified in paragraph (b) of this section on 
October 8, 1984 must notify EPA by November 6, 1984.

[[Page 21]]

    (2) Persons who propose to import a chemical substance identified in 
paragraph (b) of this section on or after October 8, 1984 must notify 
EPA by November 6, 1984, or 15 days after making the management decision 
described in Sec. 704.3, whichever is later in time.
    (3) Persons who manufacture a chemical substance identified in 
paragraph (b) of this section after October 8, 1984 must notify EPA 
within 30 days after the initial date of manufacture.

[49 FR 33653, Aug. 24, 1984; 49 FR 45133, Nov. 15, 1984; 50 FR 1215, 
Jan. 10, 1985; 51 FR 19839, June 3, 1986; 52 FR 20083, May 29, 1987. 
Redesignated at 53 FR 51717, Dec. 22, 1988]


<R05>
Sec. 704.45  Chlorinated terphenyl.

    (a) Definitions--(1) Chlorinated terphenyl means a chemical 
substance, CAS No. 61788-33-6, comprised of chlorinated ortho-, meta-, 
and paraterphenyl.
    (2) Extent of chlorination means the percent by weight of chlorine 
for each isomer (ortho, meta, and para).
    (3) Isomeric ratio means the ratios of ortho-, meta-, and 
parachlorinated terphenyls.
    (4) Polychlorinated biphenyl means any chemical substance that is 
limited to the biphenyl molecule that has been chlorinated to varying 
degrees.
    (5) Small manufacturer means a manufacturer (importers are defined 
as manufacturers under TSCA) who meets either of the following standards 
under this rule:
    (i) First standard. A manufacturer of an existing chemical substance 
is small if its total annual sales, when combined with those of its 
parent company (if any), are less than $40 million. However, if the 
annual production volume of a particular chemical substance at any 
individual site owned or controlled by the manufacturer is greater than 
45,400 kilograms (100,000 pounds), the manufacturer shall not qualify as 
small for purposes of reporting on the production of that chemical 
substance at the site, unless the manufacturer qualified as small under 
paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section.
    (ii) Second standard. A manufacturer of an existing chemical 
substance is small if its total annual sales, when combined with those 
of its parent company (if any), are less than $4 million, regardless of 
the quantity of chemicals produced by that manufacturer.
    (b) Persons who must report. Except for small manufacturers and as 
provided in Sec. 704.5, the following persons are subject to the rule:
    (1) Persons who manufacture or propose to manufacture chlorinated 
terphenyl.
    (2) Persons who import (importers) or propose to import chlorinated 
terphenyl as a chemical substance in bulk or as part of a mixture.
    (c) What information to report. Persons subject to this rule as 
described in paragraph (b) of this section must notify EPA of current or 
proposed manufacture or import of chlorinated terphenyl. The notice must 
include, to the extent that it is known to the person making the report 
or is reasonably ascertainable, the following information:
    (1) Company name and address.
    (2) Name, address, and telephone number of principal technical 
contact.
    (3) A description of the use(s) or intended use(s) for chlorinated 
terphenyl.
    (4) A description of the isomeric ratio and extent of chlorination 
of the chlorinated terphenyl and the impurity level of polychlorinated 
biphenyls.
    (5) The quantity (by weight) manufactured or imported within 12 
months prior to the effective date of the rule, if any, and the 
estimated quantity (by weight) to be manufactured or imported for the 
first three years following the date of the report or the date of the 
intended start of production, whichever occurs later.
    (6) The proposed date for the initiation of manufacturing or 
importation of chlorinated terphenyl, if appropriate.
    (d) When to report. Persons who are manufacturing or importing 
chlorinated terphenyl on the effective date of the rule must notify EPA 
within 30 days of the effective date of the rule. Persons who propose to 
manufacture or import chlorinated terphenyl must notify EPA within 15 
days after

[[Page 22]]

making the management decision described in Sec. 704.3 ``Proposed to 
manufacture or import''.

[49 FR 11184, Mar. 26, 1984, as amended at 49 FR 32068, Aug. 10, 1984; 
50 FR 2048, Jan. 15, 1985; 52 FR 20083, May 29, 1987. Redesignated at 53 
FR 51717, Dec. 22, 1988; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 704.95  Phosphonic acid, [1,2-ethanediyl-bis[nitrilobis-
(methylene)]]tetrakis- (EDTMPA) and its salts.

    (a) Substances for which reporting is required. The chemical 
substances for which reporting is required under this section are:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
  CAS No.                           Chemical name
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  1429-50-1  Phosphonic acid, [1,2-ethanediyl-bis[nitrilobis
              (methylene)]] tetrakis- (EDTMPA)
 15142-96-8  Phosphonic acid, [1,2-ethanediyl-
              bis[nitrilobis(methylene)]] tetrakis-, hexasodium salt
 34274-30-1  Phosphonic acid, [1,2-ethanediyl-
              bis[nitrilobis(methylene)]] tetrakis-, potassium salt
 57011-27-5  Phosphonic acid, [1,2-ethanediyl-bis[nitrilobis
              (methylene)]] tetrakis-, ammonium salt
 67924-23-6  Cobaltate (6-), [[[1,2-ethanediylbis [nitrilobis
              (methylene)]] tetrakis-[phosphonato]] (8-)]-,
              pentapotassium hydrogen, (OC-6-21)-
 67969-67-9  Cobaltate (6-), [[[1,2-ethanediylbis [nitrilobis
              (methylene)]] tetrakis- [phosphonato]] (8-)-
              N,N',O,O'',O'''',O'''''']-, pentasodium hydrogen, (OC-6-
              21)-
 67989-89-3  Cuprate (6-), [[[1,2-ethanediylbis [nitrilobis
              (methylene)]] tetrakis- [phosphonato]] (8-)]-,
              pentapotassium hydrogen, (OC-6-21)-
 68025-39-8  Cobaltate (6-), [[[1,2-ethanediylbis [nitrilobis
              (methylene)]] tetrakis- [phosphonato]] (6-)-
              N,N',O,O'',O'''',O'''''']-, pentaammonium hydrogen, (OC-6-
              21)-
 68188-96-5  Phosphonic acid, [1,2-ethanediylbis [nitrilobis
              (methylene)]] tetrakis-, tetrapotassium salt
 68309-98-8  Cadmate (6-), [[[1,2-ethanediylbis [nitrilobis
              (methylene)]] tetrakis- [phosphonato]] (8-)]-,
              pentapotassium hydrogen, (OC-6-21)-
 68901-17-7  Phosphonic acid, [1,2-ethanediylbis [nitrilobis
              (methylene)]] tetrakis-, octaammonium salt
 68958-86-1  Nickelate (6-), [[[1,2-ethanediylbis [nitrilobis
              (methylene)]] tetrakis- [phosphonato]] (8-)]-,
              pentaammonium hydrogen, (OC-6-21)-
 68958-87-2  Nickelate (6-), [[[1,2-ethanediylbis [nitrilobis
              (methylene)]] tetrakis- [phosphonato]] (8-)]-,
              pentapotassium hydrogen, (OC-6-21)-
 68958-88-3  Nickelate (6-), [[[1,2-ethanediylbis [nitrilobis
              (methylene)]] tetrakis [phosphonato]] (8-)]-, pentasodium
              hydrogen, (OC-6-21)-
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Persons who must report. Unless exempt as provided in Sec. 
704.5, reports must be submitted by:
    (1) Persons who manufacture or import any of the substances 
identified in paragraph (a) of this section.
    (2) Persons who propose to manufacture or propose to import any of 
the substances identified in paragraph (a) of this section. For the 
purposes of importer reporting under this section, an import site is the 
operating unit within the person's organization which is directly 
responsible for importing the substance and which controls the import 
transaction; the import site may in some cases be the organization's 
headquarters office in the United States.
    (c) What information to report. Persons identified in paragraph (b) 
of this section must report to EPA, for each of the substances 
identified in paragraph (a) of this section, the following information 
to the extent known to or reasonably ascertainable by them.
    (1) Initial Report:
    (i) Name and Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number of the 
substance for which the report is submitted.
    (ii) Company name and headquarters address.
    (iii) Name, address, and telephone number of the principal technical 
contact.
    (iv) The total quantity (by weight in pounds) of the substance 
manufactured or imported for the person's most recently completed 
corporate fiscal year.
    (v) A description of the commercial uses of the substance during the 
person's most recently completed corporate fiscal year, including the 
production volume for each use.
    (vi) The estimated quantity (by weight in pounds) of the substance 
proposed to be manufactured or imported in the person's current 
corporate fiscal year.
    (vii) A description of the intended commercial uses of the substance 
during the person's current corporate fiscal year, including the 
estimated production volume for each use.
    (2) Follow-up Report:
    (i) Name and Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number of the 
substance for which the report is submitted.
    (ii) Company name and headquarters address.
    (iii) Name, address, and telephone number of the principal technical 
contact.

[[Page 23]]

    (iv) The estimated quantity (by weight in pounds) of the substance 
proposed to be manufactured or imported in the person's current 
corporate fiscal year.
    (v) A description of the intended commercial uses of the substance 
during the person's current corporate fiscal year, including the 
estimated production volume for each use.
    (d) When to report. (1) Persons specified in paragraph (b)(1) of 
this section who are manufacturing or importing the substance as of 
December 5, 1988 must submit an initial report described in paragraph 
(c)(1) of this section by January 3, 1989.
    (2) Persons specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section must 
submit an initial report within 30 days after making the management 
decision described in Sec. 704.3 or by January 3, 1989, whichever is 
later.
    (3) Persons specified in paragraph (b) of this section, who 
submitted a report described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, must 
submit a follow-up report described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section 
within 30 days of making the management decision, described at Sec. 
704.3, to do either of the following events:
    (i) Manufacture or import the substance in a quantity 50 percent 
greater than the quantity reported in the most recently submitted 
report.
    (ii) Manufacture or import the substance for a use not reported for 
that substance in any previous report.
    (e) Certification. Persons subject to this section must attach the 
following statement to any information submitted to EPA in response to 
this section: ``I hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge and 
belief, all of the attached information is complete and accurate.'' This 
statement must be signed and dated by the company's principal technical 
contact.
    (f) Recordkeeping. Persons subject to the reporting requirements of 
this section must retain documentation of information contained in their 
reports for a period of 5 years from the date of the submission of the 
report.

[53 FR 41337, Oct. 21, 1988, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 704.102  Hexachloronorbornadiene.

    (a) Definitions--(1) Endrin means the pesticide 2,7:3,6-
Dimethanonaphth[2,3-b]oxirene,3,4,5,6,9,9-hexachloro-
1a,2,2a,3,6,6a,7,7a-octahydro-, (1aalpha, 2beta, 2abeta, 3alpha, 6alpha, 
6abeta, 7beta, 7aalpha)-, CAS Number 72-20-8.
    (2) HEX-BCH means the chemical substance 1,2,3,4,7,7-
hexachloronorbornadiene, CAS Number 3389-71-7.
    (3) Isodrin means the pesticide 1,4:5,8-
Dimethanonaphthalene,1,2,3,4,10,10-hexacholoro-1,4,4a,5,8,8a-hexahydro-, 
(1alpha, 4alpha, 4abeta, 5beta, 8beta, 8abeta)-, CAS Number 465-73-6.
    (4) Small business means any manufacturer, importer, or processor 
who meets either paragraph (a)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section:
    (i) A business is small if its total annual sales, when combined 
with those of its parent (if any), are less than $40 million. However, 
if the annual manufacture, importation, or processing volume of a 
particular chemical substance at any individual site owned or controlled 
by the business is greater than 45,400 kilograms (100,000 pounds), the 
business shall not qualify as small for purposes of reporting on the 
manufacture, importation, or processing of that chemical substance at 
that site, unless the business qualifies as small under paragraph 
(a)(4)(ii) of this section.
    (ii) A business is small if its total annual sales, when combined 
with those of its parent company (if any), are less than $4 million, 
regardless of the quantity of the particular chemical substance 
manufactured, imported, or processed by that business.
    (iii) For imported and processed mixtures containing HEX-BCH, the 
45,400 kilograms (100,000 pounds) standard in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of 
this section applies only to the amount of HEX-BCH in a mixture and not 
the other components of the mixture.
    (5) 8-hour time weighted average means the cumulative exposure for 
an 8-hour work shift computed as follows:
[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TR25SE06.003

Where:

E is the equivalent exposure for the working shift.

[[Page 24]]

C<INF>i</INF> is the concentration (i.e., parts per million) during any 
          period of time (T<INF>i</INF>) where the concentration remains 
          constant.
T<INF>i</INF> is the duration in hours of the exposure at the 
          concentration C<INF>i</INF>.

    (6) Year means corporate fiscal year.
    (b) Persons who must report. (1) Reports must be submitted by:
    (i) Persons who are manufacturing, importing, or processing HEX-BCH 
for use as an intermediate in the production or isodrin or endrin on or 
after January 2, 1986; and
    (ii) Persons who propose to manufacture, import, or process HEX-BCH 
for use as an intermediate in the production of isodrin or endrin, on or 
after January 2, 1986.
    (2) Persons described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section who engage 
or propose to engage in more than one activity (i.e., manufacture and 
processing) must report the information required in paragraph (d) 
separately for each activity.
    (c) Persons exempt from reporting. (1) Small businesses.
    (2) Persons described in Sec. 704.5(a) and (c).
    (d) Information to report. (1) Initial reports must include, to the 
extent that it is known to or reasonably ascertainable by the person 
reporting, the following information:
    (i) Company name and address.
    (ii) Name, address, and telephone number of the principal contact.
    (iii) Name and address of plant sites where HEX-BCH is or is 
proposed to be manufactured, imported, or processed, noting for each 
plant site which activity takes or would take place at each site.
    (iv) If applicable, the intended date for initiating the 
manufacture, import, or processing of HEX-BCH.
    (v) If applicable, the actual quantity (by weight) of HEX-BCH 
manufactured, imported, or processed during the most recently concluded 
year.
    (vi) The estimated quantity (by weight) of HEX-BCH to be 
manufactured, imported, or processed each year during the first 3 years 
following the date of the report or the date of the intended start of 
manufacture, import, or processing, whichever occurs later.
    (vii) For each year described in paragraphs (d)(1) (v) and (vi) of 
this section: the number or expected number of employees exposed to HEX-
BCH during the manufacture, import, processing, distribution in 
commerce, use, and disposal; the routes of exposure; and the 8-hour time 
weighted average of exposure.
    (viii) If employees are exposed or expected to be exposed to HEX-
BCH, state for each reported route of exposure, whether personal 
protective equipment is used or expected to be used, and a description 
of the personal protective equipment.
    (ix) The actual or anticipated quantity, content, method of 
disposal, and disposal site of any wastes generated or expected to be 
generated during the manufacture, importation, or processing of HEX-BCH.
    (2) Subsequent reports must provide, to the extent known to or 
reasonably ascertainable by the person reporting, the information in 
paragraph (d)(1) of this section and a statement explaining why the 
subsequent report is required.
    (e) When to report. (1) Persons who are manufacturing, importing, or 
processing HEX-BCH on January 2, 1986, must submit an initial report to 
EPA by February 3, 1986.
    (2) Persons who propose to manufacture, import, or process HEX-BCH 
on or after January 2, 1986, must submit an initial report to EPA by 
February 3, 1986, or 30 days after making the management decision 
described in Sec. 704.3 ``Propose to manufacture, import, or process,'' 
whichever is later in time.
    (3) Persons described in paragraph (b) of this section, who have 
submitted a report described in paragraph (d) of this section, must 
submit a subsequent report within 30 days of any of the following 
events. Based on the most recently submitted report:
    (i) The manufacture, importation, or processing of HEX-BCH begins at 
a plant site different than that reported pursuant to paragraph 
(d)(1)(iii) of this section.
    (ii) The actual quantity (by weight) of HEX-BCH manufactured, 
imported, or processed in a given year is greater than or equal to 200 
percent of the estimated value for that year reported pursuant to 
paragraph (d)(1)(vi) of this section.

[[Page 25]]

    (iii) The total number of employees exposed to HEX-BCH is greater 
than 130 percent of the projected value reported pursuant to paragraph 
(d)(1)(vii) of this section.
    (iv) The route of exposures to HEX-BCH differs from that reported 
pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(vii) of this section.
    (v) The actual 8-hour time weighted average exposure for any 
activity exceeds the projection reported pursuant to paragraph 
(d)(1)(vii) of this section by more than 100 percent.
    (vi) The method of disposal or disposal site reported pursuant to 
paragraph (d)(1)(ix) of this section has changed.
    (vii) Three years have passed since the most recent submission of a 
report and the person is still engaged in the manufacture, importation, 
or processing of HEX-BCH.
    (f) Certification of review. Each person who submits a report under 
this section must for 3 years following the submission date of the most 
recent submission, review their activities at the end of each year to 
determine whether any reportable event specified in paragraph (e)(3) of 
this section has occurred. If a review shows that none of these events 
has occurred, the person is required to certify this fact in writing.
    (g) Recordkeeping. Any person subject to the reporting requirements 
of this section must:
    (1) Retain documentation of information contained in their reports. 
This documentation must be maintained for a period of 3 years from the 
date of the submission of the report; and
    (2) Retain the certification required by paragraph (f) of this 
section for 3 years from the date of its creation.

[50 FR 47536, Nov. 19, 1985, as amended at 52 FR 20083, May 29, 1987. 
Redesignated at 53 FR 51717, Dec. 22, 1988; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 704.104  Hexafluoropropylene oxide.

    (a) Definitions. (1) ``HFPO'' means the chemical substance 
hexafluoropropylene oxide, CAS Number 428-59-1. [Listed in TSCA 
Inventory as oxirane, trifluoro(trifluoromethyl)-]
    (2) ``Enclosed process'' means a process that is designed and 
operated so that there is no intentional release of any substance 
present in the process. A process with fugitive, inadvertent, or 
emergency pressure relief releases remains an enclosed process so long 
as measures are taken to prevent worker exposure to and environmental 
contamination from the releases.
    (3) ``Small processor'' means a processor that meets either the 
standard in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section or the standard in 
paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section.
    (i) First standard. A processor of a chemical substance is small if 
its total annual sales, when combined with those of its parent company, 
if any, are less than $40 million. However, if the annual processing 
volume of a particular chemical substance at any individual site owned 
or controlled by the processor is greater than 45,400 kilograms (100,000 
pounds), the processor shall not qualify as small for purposes of 
reporting on the processing of that chemical substance at that site, 
unless the processor qualifies as small under paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of 
this section.
    (ii) Second standard. A processor of a chemical substance is small 
if its total annual sales, when combined with those of its parent 
company (if any), are less than $4 million, regardless of the quantity 
of the particular chemical substance processed by that company.
    (iii) Inflation index. EPA will use the Inflation Index described in 
the definition of ``small manufacturer'' that is set forth in Sec. 
704.3 for purposes of adjusting the total annual sales values of this 
small processor definition. EPA will provide Federal Register 
notification when changing the total annual sales values of this 
definition.
    (b) Persons who must report. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of 
this section, the following persons are subject to this section:
    (1) Persons who manufacture or propose to manufacture HFPO for use 
as an intermediate in the manufacture of fluorinated substances in an 
enclosed process.
    (2) Persons who import or propose to import HFPO for use as an 
intermediate in the manufacture of fluorinated substances in an enclosed 
process.
    (3) Persons who process or propose to process HFPO as an 
intermediate in

[[Page 26]]

the manufacture of fluorinated substances in an enclosed process.
    (c) Persons not subject to this rule. The following persons are not 
subject to this rule:
    (1) Small processors.
    (2) Persons described in Sec. 704.5 (a) through (d).
    (3) Persons who have already submitted to EPA a completed copy of 
the Preliminary Assessment Information Manufacturer's Report (EPA Form 
7710-35, as described at Sec. 712.28 of this chapter) for HFPO are not 
required to report under this section with respect to activities 
previously reported on.
    (d) What information to report. Persons identified in paragraph (b) 
of this section must submit a Premanufacture Notice Form (EPA Form 7710-
25).
    (e) When to report. (1) Persons who are manufacturing, importing, or 
processing, or who propose to manufacture, import, or process HFPO for 
use as an intermediate in the manufacture of fluorinated substances in 
an enclosed process as of December 10, 1987, must report by February 8, 
1988.
    (2) Persons who propose to manufacture, import, or process HFPO for 
use as an intermediate in the manufacture of fluorinated substances in 
an enclosed process after December 10, 1987, must report within 30 days 
after making a firm management decision to commit financial resources 
for the manufacturing, importing, or processing of HFPO.
    (f) Recordkeeping. Persons subject to the reporting requirements of 
this section must retain documentation of information contained in their 
reports for a period of 5 years from the date of submission of the 
reports.
    (g) Where to send reports. Reports must be submitted by certified 
mail to the Document Control Office (DCO) (7407M), Office of Pollution 
Prevention and Toxics (OPPT), Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 
Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460-0001, ATTN: HFPO Reporting.

[52 FR 41299, Oct. 27, 1987, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 
60 FR 16308, Mar. 29, 1995; 60 FR 31920, June 19, 1995; 60 FR 34463, 
July 3, 1995; 71 FR 33641, June 12, 2006]


<R05>
Sec. 704.175  4,4'-methylenebis(2-chloroaniline) (MBOCA).

    (a) Substance subject to reporting. The chemical substance 4,4'-
methylenebis(2-chloroaniline) (CAS No. 101-14-4) is subject to reporting 
under this section. The substance also is identified as 4,4'-
methylenebis(2-chlorobenzenamine) and MBOCA.
    (b) Persons who must report. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of 
this section, the following persons are subject to this rule.
    (1) Persons who propose to manufacture MBOCA in the United States on 
or after June 2, 1986.
    (2) Persons who are manufacturing MBOCA in the United States as of 
June 2, 1986.
    (3) Persons manufacturing MBOCA in the United States on or after 
June 2, 1986 who propose to change their manner or method of 
manufacturing the substance from a manner or method of manufacturing 
that previously was reported under this section.
    (c) Persons not subject to this rule. The following persons are 
exempt from the reporting requirements of this section:
    (1) Persons who import MBOCA into the customs territory of the 
United States and do not otherwise manufacture the substance in the 
United States.
    (2) Persons who complied with the requirements of this section prior 
to June 2, 1986 and received written notification of compliance from 
EPA.
    (d) What information to report. Persons who are subject to this rule 
as described in paragraph (b) of this section must report information to 
EPA by completing the following parts of the notice form contained in 
appendix A to part 720 of this chapter: Parts I.A., I.B., I.C.1., 
I.C.3., and II.A.; also, part III as appropriate. Persons subject to the 
requirements of this section also must submit a narrative description of 
any processing and packaging of MBOCA that occurs at the manufacturing 
plant site, including the number of workers potentially exposed to MBOCA 
during on-site processing and packaging of MBOCA and a description of 
any personal protective equipment and/or engineering controls that would 
be used to prevent release of and exposure to MBOCA during on-site 
processing and

[[Page 27]]

packaging. Persons subject to the requirements of this section are not 
required to submit information on processing or use of MBOCA away from 
the manufacturing plant site. Respondents to this rule shall report all 
information that is known to or reasonably ascertainable by the person 
reporting.
    (e) When to report. (1) Persons specified in paragraph (b)(1) of 
this section must report by July 2, 1986 or within 30 days after making 
a firm management decision to commit financial resources for the 
manufacture of MBOCA, whichever is later in time.
    (2) Persons specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section must 
report by July 2, 1986.
    (3) Persons specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section must 
report within 30 days of making a firm management decision to commit 
financial resources to change their manner or method of manufacturing 
the substance from a manner or method of manufacturing that previously 
was reported under this section.

[51 FR 13223, Apr. 18, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 20083, May 29, 1987; 58 
FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R03>
PART 707_CHEMICAL IMPORTS AND EXPORTS--Table of Contents



Subpart A [Reserved]

         Subpart B_General Import Requirements and Restrictions

Sec.
707.20 Chemical substances import policy.

Subpart C [Reserved]

             Subpart D_Notices of Export Under Section 12(b)

707.60 Applicability and compliance.
707.63 Definitions.
707.65 Submission to agency.
707.67 Contents of notice.
707.70 EPA notice to foreign governments.
707.72 Termination of reporting requirements.
707.75 Confidentiality.

    Authority: 15 U.S.C. 2611(b) and 2612.

    Source: 45 FR 82850, Dec. 16, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A [Reserved]


<R04>
         Subpart B_General Import Requirements and Restrictions


<R05>
Sec. 707.20  Chemical substances import policy.

    (a) Scope. (1) This statement addresses the policy of the 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on importation of chemical 
substances, mixtures, and articles under section 13 of the Toxic 
Substances Control Act (TSCA; 15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.). In particular, it 
addresses aspects of the regulation promulgated by the United States 
Customs Service (Customs), Department of the Treasury (19 CFR 12.118 
through 12.127, and 127.28 [amended]) to implement section 13 of TSCA, 
15 U.S.C. 2612. Section 13 requires the Secretary of the Treasury to 
refuse entry into the Customs territory of the United States of a 
chemical substance, mixture, or article if it does not comply with rules 
in effect under TSCA, or if it is offered for entry in violation of TSCA 
or rules or orders under TSCA.
    (2) In addition to this statement of policy, EPA will continue, as 
necessary, to address problems associated with imports in rulemaking and 
other actions under individual sections of TSCA, i.e., sections 4, 5, 6, 
7, 8, and 12. Sections 5, 6, and 7 apply directly to imports subject to 
the section 13 requirements. Section 12 may apply to export of a 
shipment that is refused entry under section 13. Importers may have 
obligations under sections 4 and 8; section 4 and 8 requirements for 
importers would not apply to individual chemical shipments and thus are 
not included under section 13 requirements. Interested persons should 
refer to the records of these individual rulemaking actions for specific 
information and guidance.
    (b) Objectives. (1) TSCA is intended to be comprehensive, and assure 
protection of health and the environment from unreasonable risks 
associated with chemicals whether the chemicals are imported or produced 
domestically. This intent is manifested by the inclusion of importation 
in the Act's definition of the term ``manufacture'': ``[M]anufacture 
means to import * * *, produce, or manufacture'' (15 U.S.C.

[[Page 28]]

2602(7)). Thus, importers are responsible for insuring that chemical 
importation complies with TSCA just as domestic manufacturers are 
responsible for insuring that chemical manufacture complies with TSCA.
    (2)(i) The section 13 rule requires importers to sign the following 
statement for each import of chemical substances subject to TSCA: ``I 
certify that all chemical substances in this shipment comply with all 
applicable rules or orders under TSCA and that I am not offering a 
chemical substance for entry in violation of TSCA or any applicable rule 
or order under TSCA.'' The certification will document that, in 
accordance with TSCA, the importer has taken the necessary steps to 
insure compliance.
    (ii) The section 13 rule requires importers of chemicals not subject 
to TSCA (e.g., pesticides) to certify that compliance with TSCA is not 
required. Importers must certify this by signing the statement: ``I 
certify that all chemicals in this shipment are not subject to TSCA.'' 
This is appropriate when a chemical import is not clearly identified as 
a pesticide or other chemical not subject to TSCA.
    (3) The United States is involved in a major effort toward 
international harmonization in the control of chemicals. At such time as 
international agreement is reached on this issue, EPA would be prepared 
to modify its policy if necessary. EPA believes that its international 
harmonization efforts in the control of chemicals will protect health 
and the environment while fulfilling its obligations under the Trade 
Agreements Act of 1979.
    (c) The section 13 rule--(1) General certification. (i) The rule 
promulgated under section 13 of TSCA by Customs, in consultation with 
EPA, implements the requirement of section 13 that chemical substances, 
mixtures, or articles not in compliance with TSCA, or whose importation 
is not in compliance with TSCA, shall be denied entry into the customs 
territory of the United States. The rule requires that importers certify 
by a statement, on the entry document or invoice, that any shipment of a 
chemical substance subject to TSCA, imported in bulk or as part of a 
mixture, complies with TSCA, and that it is not offered for entry in 
violation of TSCA or any rule or order under TSCA, or that the chemicals 
imported are not subject to TSCA.
    (ii) The certification applies to TSCA sections 5, 6, and 7.
    (iii) EPA expects that this certification will be based upon actual 
knowledge of the importer in most cases. However, EPA realizes that 
sometimes importers may not have actual knowledge of the chemical 
composition of imported mixtures. In these cases, the importer should 
attempt to discover the chemical constituents of the shipment by 
contacting another party to the transaction (e.g., his principal or the 
foreign manufacturer). This person may be able to identify the 
components of the mixture, or at least state that the substances comply 
with TSCA. The greater the effort an importer makes to learn the 
identities of the imported substances and their compliance with TSCA, 
the smaller his chance of committing a violation by importing a 
noncomplying shipment. If a shipment is ultimately determined to have 
violated TSCA, the good faith efforts of the importer to verify 
compliance, as evidenced by documents contained in his files, may 
obviate or mitigate the assessment of a civil penalty under section 16 
of TSCA.
    (2) EPA enforcement. (i) EPA and Customs will monitor chemical 
imports to determine if shipments and their import comply with the 
certification requirements and the substantive mandates of TSCA. Customs 
will refuse entry to any shipment until such time as the certification 
is properly submitted. Customs will also detain a shipment if there are 
reasonable grounds to believe that such shipment or its import violates 
TSCA or regulations or orders thereunder. A violative shipment must 
either be brought into compliance, exported, destroyed, or voluntarily 
abandoned within the time periods prescribed in 19 CFR 12.124 of the 
section 13 rule.
    (ii) When EPA determines that a shipment should be detained, EPA 
will identify the reasons for the detention and the necessary actions 
for an importer to bring the shipment into compliance with TSCA. If EPA 
has given this information to Customs before the

[[Page 29]]

district director issues the detention notice, the information will 
become part of the detention notice. The importer should contact one of 
the following EPA regional offices for guidance as to the proper 
procedures to correct any deficiencies in the shipment.

                                Region I

    5 Post Office Square--Suite 100, Boston, MA 02109-3912 (617-918-
1700).

                                Region II

26 Federal Plaza, New York, NY 10278 (201-321-6669)

                               Region III

Curtis Building, 6th and Walnut Streets, Philadelphia, PA 19106 (215-
597-7668)

                                Region IV

345 Courtland Street, NE., Atlanta, GA 30365 (404-881-3864)

                                Region V

77 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, IL 60604 (312-353-2291)

                                Region VI

1201 Elm Street, Dallas, TX 75270 (214-767-2734)

                               Region VII

11201 Renner Boulevard, AWMD/WEMM, Lenexa, Kansas 66219

                               Region VIII

1860 Lincoln Street, Denver, CO 80295 (303-837-3926)

                                Region IX

75 Hawthorne Street, San Francisco, CA 94105 (415) 947-4402.

                                Region X

1200 Sixth Avenue, Seattle, WA 98101 (206-442-2871)

    (iii) If Customs detains or refuses entry of a shipment (other than 
for failure to make the general certification) and the importer takes 
measures necessary to bring the shipment into conformity with the 
requirements of TSCA, EPA officials will reassess the shipment to 
determine its current compliance status. When a shipment is no longer in 
violation, EPA will notify the district director and the importer. The 
district director will then release the shipment. This notice will also 
serve as a determination to permit entry under 19 CFR 12.123(c) if a 
shipment is brought into compliance before the 19 CFR 12.123(c) 
decisionmaking process has been completed. If compliance is achieved 
after a 19 CFR 12.123(c) determination (adverse to the importer) has 
been made, the EPA notice to the district director will serve as a 
reversal of the decision to refuse entry.
    (3) EPA assistance. Assistance in determining whether a chemical 
shipment is in compliance with TSCA can be obtained from the Director, 
Environmental Assistance Division (7408), Office of Pollution Prevention 
and Toxics, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Room E-543B, 1200 
Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460, Telephone: (202) 554-1404, 
TDD: (202) 544-0551.

[48 FR 55464, Dec. 13, 1983, as amended at 60 FR 34463, July 3, 1995; 62 
FR 1834, Jan. 14, 1997; 75 FR 69353, Nov. 12, 2010; 76 FR 49674, Aug. 
11, 2011; 78 FR 37978, June 25, 2013]

Subpart C [Reserved]


<R04>
             Subpart D_Notices of Export Under Section 12(b)


<R05>
Sec. 707.60  Applicability and compliance.

    (a) Section 12(b) of the Toxic Substances Control Act requires any 
person who exports or intends to export a chemical substance or mixture 
to notify the Environmental Protection Agency of such exportation to a 
particular country if any of the following actions have been taken under 
the Act with respect to that chemical substance or mixture:
    (1) Data are required under section 4 or 5(b),
    (2) An order has been issued under section 5,
    (3) A rule has been proposed or promulgated under section 5 or 6, or
    (4) An action is pending, or relief has been granted under section 5 
or 7.
    (b) No notice of export will be required for articles, except PCB 
articles, unless the Agency so requires in the context of individual 
section 5, 6, or 7 actions.
    (c)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this 
section no

[[Page 30]]

notice of export is required for the export of a chemical substance or 
mixture for which export notification is otherwise required, where such 
chemical substance or mixture is present in a concentration of less than 
1% (by weight or volume).
    (2) No notice of export is required for the export of a chemical 
substance or mixture that is a known or potential human carcinogen where 
such chemical substance or mixture is present in a concentration of less 
than 0.1% (by weight or volume). A chemical is considered to be a known 
or potential human carcinogen, for purposes of TSCA section 12(b) export 
notification, if that chemical is:
    (i) A chemical substance or mixture listed as a ``known to be human 
carcinogen'' or ``reasonably anticipated to be human carcinogen'' in the 
Report on Carcinogens (latest edition) issued by the U.S. Department of 
Health and Human Services, Public Heath Service, National Toxicology 
Program,
    (ii) A chemical substance or mixture is classified as ``carcinogenic 
to humans'' (Group 1), ``probably carcinogenic to humans'' (Group 2A), 
or ``probably carcinogenic to humans'' (Group 2B) in the Monographs and 
Supplements on the Evaluation of Carcinogenic Risks to Humans issued by 
the World Health Organization International Agency for Research on 
Cancer (IARC), Lyons, France (latest editions), or
    (iii) Alpha-naphthylamine (Chemical Abstract Service Registry Number 
(CAS No.) 134-32-7) or 4-nitrobiphenyl (CAS No. 92-93-3).
    (3) No notice of export is required for the export of 
polychlorinated biphenyl chemicals (PCBs) (see definition in 40 CFR 
761.3), where such chemical substances are present in a concentration of 
less than or equal to 50 ppm (by weight or volume).
    (d) Any person who exports or intends to export PCBs or PCB articles 
(see definition in 40 CFR 761.3), for any purpose other than disposal, 
shall notify EPA of such intent or exportation under TSCA section 12(b), 
except as specified in Sec. 707.60(c)(3). PCBs and PCB articles have 
the definitions published in 40 CFR 761.3.
    (e) Any person who would be prohibited by a TSCA section 5 or 6 
regulation from exporting a chemical substance or mixture, but who is 
granted an exemption by EPA to export that chemical substance or 
mixture, shall notify EPA under TSCA section 12(b) of such intent to 
export or exportation.
    (f) Failure to comply with TSCA section 12(b) as set forth in this 
part will be considered a violation of TSCA section 15(3), and will 
subject the exporter to the penalty, enforcement, and seizure provisions 
of TSCA sections 16 and 17.

[45 FR 82850, Dec. 16, 1980, as amended at 71 FR 66244, Nov. 14, 2006; 
71 FR 68751, Nov. 28, 2006]


<R05>
Sec. 707.63  Definitions.

    The definitions set forth in the Toxic Substances Control Act, 
section 3, apply for this part. In addition, the following abbreviations 
and definitions are provided for purposes of this rule:
    (a) EPA means the Environmental Protection Agency.
    (b) Exporter means the person who, as the principal party in 
interest in the export transaction, has the power and responsibility for 
determining and controlling the sending of the chemical substance or 
mixture to a destination out of the customs territory of the United 
States.
    (c) Regulated chemical means any chemical substance or mixture for 
which export notice is required under Sec. 707.60.
    (d) TSCA means the Toxic Substances Control Act.


<R05>
Sec. 707.65  Submission to agency.

    (a) For each action under TSCA triggering export notification, 
exporters must notify EPA of their export or intended export of each 
subject chemical substance or mixture for which export notice is 
required under Sec. 707.60 in accordance with the following:
    (1) The notice must be in writing;
    (2)(i) The notice must be for the first export or intended export by 
an exporter to a particular country in a calendar year when the chemical 
substance or mixture is the subject of an order issued, an action that 
is pending, or relief that has been granted under TSCA section 5(f), a 
rule that has been

[[Page 31]]

proposed or promulgated under TSCA section 6, or an action that is 
pending or relief that has been granted under TSCA section 7.
    (ii) The notice must only be for the first export or intended export 
by an exporter to a particular country when the chemical substance or 
mixture is the subject of an order issued, an action that is pending, or 
relief that has been granted under TSCA section 5(e), a rule that has 
been proposed or promulgated under TSCA section 5(a)(2), or when the 
submission of data is required under TSCA section 4 or 5(b). Under this 
paragraph, notice of export to a particular country is not required if 
an exporter previously submitted to EPA a notice of export to that 
country prior to January 16, 2007.
    (3) The notice must be postmarked within seven days of forming the 
intent to export or on the date of export, whichever is earlier. A 
notice of intent to export must be based on a definite contractual 
obligation, or an equivalent intra-company agreement, to export the 
regulated chemical.
    (b) If the EPA action that prompts the notice is a proposed rule, 
the requirement to submit export notices to EPA shall begin thirty days 
after publication of the action in the Federal Register.
    (c) Notices shall be marked ``TSCA Section 12(b) Notice'' and sent 
to EPA by mail or delivered by hand or courier. Send notices by mail to: 
Document Control Office (7407M), Office of Pollution Prevention and 
Toxics (OPPT), Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., 
NW., Washington, DC 20460-0001 (Attention: TSCA Section 12(b) Notice). 
Hand delivery of TSCA section 12(b) notices should be made to: OPPT 
Document Control Office (DCO), EPA East., Rm. 6428, Environmental 
Protection Agency, 1201 Constitution Ave., NW., Washington, DC 
(Attention: TSCA Section 12(b) Notice). The DCO is open from 8 a.m. to 4 
p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays. The telephone 
number for the DCO is (202) 564-8930. Such deliveries are only accepted 
during the DCO's normal hours of operation.

[45 FR 82850, Dec. 16, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 12522, Apr. 15, 1988; 
58 FR 40242, July 27, 1993; 60 FR 34463, July 3, 1995; 71 FR 33641, June 
12, 2006; 71 FR 66244, Nov. 14, 2006]


<R05>
Sec. 707.67  Contents of notice.

    The notice to EPA shall include:
    (a) The name of the regulated chemical as it appears in the section 
4, 5, 6, and/or 7 action. If a category is regulated, the name of the 
individual regulated chemical within that category, as well as the 
category, must be given. The name shall be that which appears in Volume 
I of the EPA Chemical Substance Inventory, or its supplements, if the 
chemical appears there.
    (b) The name and address of the exporter.
    (c) The country (countries) of import.
    (d) The date(s) of export or intended export.
    (e) The section (4, 5, 6, and/or 7) of TSCA under which EPA has 
taken action.

[45 FR 82850, Dec. 16, 1980, as amended at 71 FR 66245, Nov. 14, 2006]


<R05>
Sec. 707.70  EPA notice to foreign governments.

    (a)(1) Notice by EPA to the importing country shall be sent no later 
than 5 working days after receipt by the TSCA Document Processing Center 
of the first annual notification from any exporter for each chemical 
substance or mixture that is the subject of an order issued, an action 
that is pending, or relief that has been granted under TSCA section 
5(f), a rule that has been proposed or promulgated under TSCA section 6, 
or an action that is pending or relief that has been granted under TSCA 
section 7.
    (2) Notice by EPA to the importing country shall be sent no later 
than 5 working days after receipt by the TSCA Document Processing Center 
of the first notification from any exporter for each chemical substance 
or mixture that is the subject of an order issued, an action that is 
pending, or relief that has been granted under TSCA section 5(e), a rule 
that has been proposed or promulgated under TSCA section 5(a)(2), or for 
which the submission of

[[Page 32]]

data is required under TSCA section 4 or 5(b).
    (b) Notices shall:
    (1) Identify the regulated chemical.
    (2) Summarize the regulatory action taken, or indicate the 
availability of data under section 4 or 5(b) of TSCA.
    (3) Identify an EPA official to contact for further information.
    (4) Include a copy of the pertinent Federal Register notice.
    (c) Notices shall be sent to the country's ambassador in Washington, 
DC, or other official designated by the foreign government, and to the 
United States Department of State.

[45 FR 82850, Dec. 16, 1980, as amended at 58 FR 40242, July 27, 1993; 
71 FR 66245, Nov. 14, 2006]


<R05>
Sec. 707.72  Termination of reporting requirements.

    (a) The reporting requirements of subpart D of this part are 
terminated for certain specific chemical substances and mixtures as set 
forth in this paragraph.
    (1) When data required under part 766 of this chapter have been 
submitted to EPA for a specific chemical substance produced by a 
specific process, and the data show no positive test result as defined 
in Sec. 766.3 of this chapter, reporting is no longer required by 
persons who export or intend to export that substance produced by that 
process.
    (2) [Reserved]
    (b) [Reserved]

[52 FR 21437, June 5, 1987]


<R05>
Sec. 707.75  Confidentiality.

    (a) A person may assert a claim of confidentiality for any 
information which is submitted to EPA in a notice.
    (b) Any claim of confidentiality must accompany the information at 
the time it is submitted to EPA. In the notice, the submitter must 
clearly identify the information that is claimed confidential by marking 
the specific information on each page with a label such as 
``confidential business information'', ``proprietary'', or ``trade 
secret''.
    (c) Notwithstanding any claim of confidentiality, information 
outlined in Sec. 707.70 will be included in the EPA notice to the 
foreign government. With this exception, EPA will disclose information 
that is covered by a claim of confidentiality asserted in accordance 
with this section only to the extent permitted by, and in accordance 
with, the procedures set forth in TSCA and part 2 of this chapter.
    (d) If a person does not assert a claim of confidentiality for 
information at the time a notice is submitted to EPA, the Agency may 
make the information public, including placement in a public file, 
without further notice to the person.


<R03>
PART 710_COMPILATION OF THE TSCA CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE INVENTORY--
Table of Contents



Sec.
710.1 Scope and compliance.
710.3 Definitions.
710.4 Scope of the inventory.

    Authority: 15 U.S.C. 2607(a).


<R05>
Sec. 710.1  Scope and compliance.

    (a) This part establishes regulations governing reporting and 
recordkeeping by certain persons who manufacture, import, or process 
chemical substances for commercial purposes under section 8(a) of the 
Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2607(a)) (TSCA). Section 8(a) 
authorizes the Administrator to require reporting of information 
necessary for administration of the Act and requires EPA to issue 
regulations for the purpose of compiling and keeping current an 
inventory of chemical substances manufactured or processed for a 
commercial purpose, as required by section 8(b) of the Act. Following an 
initial reporting period, EPA published an initial inventory of chemical 
substances manufactured, processed, or imported for commercial purposes. 
In accordance with section 8(b), EPA periodically amends the inventory 
to include new chemical substances which are manufactured or imported 
for a commercial purpose and reported under section 5(a)(1) of the Act. 
EPA also revises the categories of chemical substances and makes other 
amendments as appropriate.
    (b) This part applies to the activities associated with the 
compilation of the TSCA Chemical Substance Inventory (TSCA Inventory) 
and the update of information on a subset of the chemical

[[Page 33]]

substances included on the TSCA Inventory.
    (c) Section 15(3) of TSCA makes it unlawful for any person to fail 
or refuse to submit information required under these reporting 
regulations. In addition, section 15(3) makes it unlawful for any person 
to fail to keep, and permit access to, records required by these 
regulations. Section 16 provides that any person who violates a 
provision of section 15 is liable to the United States for a civil 
penalty and may be criminally prosecuted. Pursuant to section 17, the 
Government may seek judicial relief to compel submission of section 8(a) 
information and to otherwise restrain any violation of section 15. (EPA 
does not intend to concentrate its enforcement efforts on insignificant 
clerical errors in reporting.)
    (d) Each person who reports under these regulations must maintain 
records that document information reported under these regulations and, 
in accordance with the Act, permit access to, and the copying of, such 
records by EPA officials.

[68 FR 887, Jan. 7, 2003, as amended at 76 FR 50859, Aug. 16, 2011; 76 
FR 54933, Sept. 6, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 710.3  Definitions.

    For purposes of this part:
    (a) The following terms will have the meaning contained in the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. 321 et seq., and the 
regulations issued under such Act: Cosmetic, device, drug, food, and 
food additive. In addition, the term food includes poultry and poultry 
products, as defined in the Poultry Products Inspection Act, 21 U.S.C. 
453 et seq.; meats and meat food products, as defined in the Federal 
Meat Inspection Act, 21 U.S.C. 60 et seq.; and eggs and egg products, as 
defined in the Egg Products Inspection Act, 21 U.S.C. 1033 et seq.
    (b) The term pesticide will have the meaning contained in the 
Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, 7 U.S.C. 136 et 
seq., and the regulations issued thereunder.
    (c) The following terms will have the meaning contained in the 
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, 42 U.S.C. 2014 et seq., and the regulations 
issued thereunder: Byproduct material, source material, and special 
nuclear material.
    (d) The following definitions also apply to this part:
    Act means the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.
    Administrator means the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency, any employee or authorized representative of the 
Agency to whom the Administrator may either herein or by order delegate 
his/her authority to carry out his/her functions, or any other person 
who will by operation of law be authorized to carry out such functions.
    An article is a manufactured item:
    (1) Which is formed to a specific shape or design during 
manufacture,
    (2) Which has end use function(s) dependent in whole or in part upon 
its shape or design during end use, and
    (3) Which has either no change of chemical composition during its 
end use or only those changes of composition which have no commercial 
purpose separate from that of the article and that may occur as 
described in Sec. 710.4(d)(5); except that fluids and particles are not 
considered articles regardless of shape or design.
    Byproduct means a chemical substance produced without separate 
commercial intent during the manufacture or processing of another 
chemical substance(s) or mixture(s).
    Chemical substance means any organic or inorganic substance of a 
particular molecular identity, including any combination of such 
substances occurring in whole or in part as a result of a chemical 
reaction or occurring in nature, and any chemical element or uncombined 
radical; except that ``chemical substance'' does not include:
    (1) Any mixture,
    (2) Any pesticide when manufactured, processed, or distributed in 
commerce for use as a pesticide,
    (3) Tobacco or any tobacco product, but not including any derivative 
products,
    (4) Any source material, special nuclear material, or byproduct 
material,
    (5) Any pistol, firearm, revolver, shells, and cartridges, and
    (6) Any food, food additive, drug, cosmetic, or device, when 
manufactured, processed, or distributed in commerce for use as a food, 
food additive, drug, cosmetic, or device.

[[Page 34]]

    Commerce means trade, traffic, transportation, or other commerce:
    (1) Between a place in a State and any place outside of such State, 
or
    (2) Which affects trade, traffic, transportation, or commerce 
described in paragraph (1) of this definition.
    Distribute in commerce and distribution in commerce, when used to 
describe an action taken with respect to a chemical substance or mixture 
or article containing a substance or mixture, mean to sell or the sale 
of the substance, mixture, or article in commerce; to introduce or 
deliver for introduction into commerce, or the introduction or delivery 
for introduction into commerce of the substance, mixture, or article; or 
to hold or the holding of the substance, mixture, or article after its 
introduction into commerce.
    EPA means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
    Importer means any person who imports any chemical substance or any 
chemical substance as part of a mixture or article into the customs 
territory of the U.S. and includes:
    (1) The person primarily liable for the payment of any duties on the 
merchandise, or
    (2) An authorized agent acting on his/her behalf.
    Impurity means a chemical substance which is unintentionally present 
with another chemical substance.
    Intermediate means any chemical substance:
    (1) Which is intentionally removed from the equipment in which it is 
manufactured, and
    (2) Which either is consumed in whole or in part in chemical 
reaction(s) used for the intentional manufacture of other chemical 
substance(s) or mixture(s), or is intentionally present for the purpose 
of altering the rate of such chemical reaction(s).

    Note: The equipment in which it was manufactured includes the 
reaction vessel in which the chemical substance was manufactured and 
other equipment which is strictly ancillary to the reaction vessel, and 
any other equipment through which the chemical substance may flow during 
a continuous flow process, but does not include tanks or other vessels 
in which the chemical substance is stored after its manufacture.

    Manufacture means to manufacture, produce, or import for commercial 
purposes.
    Manufacture or import ``for commercial purposes'' means to 
manufacture, produce, or import with the purpose of obtaining an 
immediate or eventual commercial advantage, and includes, for example, 
the manufacture or import of any amount of a chemical substance or 
mixture:
    (1) For commercial distribution, including for test marketing, or
    (2) For use by the manufacturer, including use for product research 
and development, or as an intermediate.
    Mixture means any combination of two or more chemical substances if 
the combination does not occur in nature and is not, in whole or in 
part, the result of a chemical reaction; except that ``mixture'' does 
include:
    (1) Any combination which occurs, in whole or in part, as a result 
of a chemical reaction if the combination could have been manufactured 
for commercial purposes without a chemical reaction at the time the 
chemical substances comprising the combination were combined and if, 
after the effective date or premanufacture notification requirements, 
none of the chemical substances comprising the combination is a new 
chemical substance, and
    (2) Hydrates of a chemical substance or hydrated ions formed by 
association of a chemical substance with water.
    New chemical substance means any chemical substance which is not 
included in the inventory compiled and published under section 8(b) of 
the Act.
    Person means any natural or juridical person including any 
individual, corporation, partnership, or association, any State or 
political subdivision thereof, or any municipality, any interstate body 
and any department, agency, or instrumentality of the Federal 
Government.
    Process means the preparation of a chemical substance or mixture, 
after its manufacture, for distribution in commerce:
    (1) In the same form or physical state as, or in a different form or 
physical state from, that in which it was received by the person so 
preparing such substance or mixture, or

[[Page 35]]

    (2) As part of a mixture or article containing the chemical 
substance or mixture.
    Process ``for commercial purposes'' means to process:
    (1) For distribution in commerce, including for test marketing 
purposes, or
    (2) For use as an intermediate.
    Processor means any person who processes a chemical substance or 
mixture.
    Site means a contiguous property unit. Property divided only by a 
public right-of-way will be considered one site. There may be more than 
one manufacturing plant on a single site. For the purposes of imported 
chemical substances, the site will be the business address of the 
importer.
    Small quantities for purposes of scientific experimentation or 
analysis or chemical research on, or analysis of, such substance or 
another substance, including any such research or analysis for the 
development of a product (hereinafter sometimes shortened to small 
quantities for research and development) means quantities of a chemical 
substance manufactured, imported, or processed or proposed to be 
manufactured, imported, or processed that:
    (1) Are no greater than reasonably necessary for such purposes, and
    (2) After the publication of the revised inventory, are used by, or 
directly under the supervision of, a technically qualified 
individual(s).

    Note: Any chemical substances manufactured, imported, or processed 
in quantities less than 1,000 lbs. (454 kg) annually will be presumed to 
be manufactured, imported, or processed for research and development 
purposes. No person may report for the inventory any chemical substance 
in such quantities unless that person can certify that the substance was 
not manufactured, imported, or processed solely in small quantities for 
research and development, as defined in this section.

    State means any State of the United States, the District of 
Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the 
Canal Zone, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, or any other 
territory or possession of the United States.
    Technically qualified individual means a person:
    (1) Who because of his/her education, training, or experience, or a 
combination of these factors, is capable of appreciating the health and 
environmental risks associated with the chemical substance which is used 
under his/her supervision,
    (2) Who is responsible for enforcing appropriate methods of 
conducting scientific experimentation, analysis, or chemical research in 
order to minimize such risks, and
    (3) Who is responsible for the safety assessments and clearances 
related to the procurement, storage, use, and disposal of the chemical 
substance as may be appropriate or required within the scope of 
conducting the research and development activity. The responsibilities 
in this paragraph may be delegated to another individual, or other 
individuals, as long as each meets the criteria in paragraph (1) of this 
definition.
    Test marketing means the distribution in commerce of no more than a 
predetermined amount of a chemical substance, mixture, or article 
containing that chemical substance or mixture, by a manufacturer or 
processor to no more than a defined number of potential customers to 
explore market capability in a competitive situation during a 
predetermined testing period prior to the broader distribution of that 
chemical substance, mixture, or article in commerce.
    United States, when used in the geographic sense, means all of the 
States, territories, and possessions of the United States.

[68 FR 888, Jan. 7, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 40791, July 7, 2004; 76 FR 
50859, Aug. 16, 2011; 76 FR 54933, Sept. 6, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 710.4  Scope of the inventory.

    (a) Chemical substances subject to these regulations. Only chemical 
substances which are manufactured, imported, or processed ``for a 
commercial purpose,'' as defined in Sec. 710.3(d), are subject to these 
regulations.
    (b) Naturally occurring chemical substances automatically included. 
Any chemical substance which is naturally occurring and:
    (1) Which is (i) unprocessed or (ii) processed only by manual, 
mechanical, or gravitational means; by dissolution in water; by 
flotation; or by heating solely to remove water; or

[[Page 36]]

    (2) Which is extracted from air by any means, will automatically be 
included in the inventory under the category ``Naturally Occurring 
Chemical Substances.'' Examples of such substances are: raw agricultural 
commodities; water, air, natural gas, and crude oil; and rocks, ores, 
and minerals.
    (c) Substances excluded by definition or section 8(b) of TSCA. The 
following substances are excluded from the inventory:
    (1) Any substance which is not considered a ``chemical substance'' 
as provided in subsection 3(2)(B) of the Act and in the definition of 
``chemical substance'' in Sec. 710.3(d);
    (2) Any mixture as defined in Sec. 710.3(d);
    Note: A chemical substance that is manufactured as part of a mixture 
is subject to these reporting regulations. This exclusion applies only 
to the mixture and not to the chemical substances of which the mixture 
is comprised. The term ``mixture'' includes alloys, inorganic glasses, 
ceramics, frits, and cements, including Portland cement.
    (3) Any chemical substance which is manufactured, imported, or 
processed solely in small quantities for research and development, as 
defined in Sec. 710.3(d); and
    (4) Any chemical substance not manufactured, processed or imported 
for a commercial purpose since January 1, 1975.
    (d) Chemical substances excluded from the inventory. The following 
chemical substances are excluded from the inventory. Although they are 
considered to be manufactured or processed for a commercial purpose for 
the purpose of section 8 of the Act, they are not manufactured or 
processed for distribution in commerce as chemical substances per se and 
have no commercial purpose separate from the substance, mixture, or 
article of which they may be a part.
    Note: In addition, chemical substances excluded here will not be 
subject to premanufacture notification under section 5 of the Act.
    (1) Any impurity.
    (2) Any byproduct which has no commercial purpose.
    Note: A byproduct which has commercial value only to municipal or 
private organizations who (i) burn it as a fuel, (ii) dispose of it as a 
waste, including in a landfill or for enriching soil, or (iii) extract 
component chemical substances which have commercial value, may be 
reported for the inventory, but will not be subject to premanufacture 
notification under section 5 of the Act if not included.
    (3) Any chemical substance which results from a chemical reaction 
that occurs incidental to exposure of another chemical substance, 
mixture, or article to environmental factors such as air, moisture, 
microbial organisms, or sunlight.
    (4) Any chemical substance which results from a chemical reaction 
that occurs incidental to storage of another chemical substance, 
mixture, or article.
    (5) Any chemical substance which results from a chemical reaction 
that occurs upon end use of other chemical substances, mixtures, or 
articles such as adhesives, paints, miscellaneous cleansers or other 
housekeeping products, fuels and fuel additives, water softening and 
treatment agents, photographic films, batteries, matches, and safety 
flares, and which is not itself manufactured for distribution in 
commerce or for use as an intermediate.
    (6) Any chemical substance which results from a chemical reaction 
that occurs upon use of curable plastic or rubber molding compounds, 
inks, drying oils, metal finishing compounds, adhesives, or paints; or 
other chemical substances formed during manufacture of an article 
destined for the marketplace without further chemical change of the 
chemical substance except for those chemical changes that may occur as 
described elsewhere in this Sec. 710.4(d).
    (7) Any chemical substance which results from a chemical reaction 
that occurs when (i) a stabilizer, colorant, odorant, antioxidant, 
filler, solvent, carrier, surfactant, plasticizer, corrosion inhibitor, 
antifoamer or de-foamer, dispersant, precipitation inhibitor, binder, 
emulsifier, de-emulsifier, dewatering agent, agglomerating agent, 
adhesion promoter, flow modifier, pH neutralizer, sequesterant, 
coagulant, flocculant, fire retardant, lubricant, chelating agent, or 
quality control reagent functions as intended or (ii) a chemical 
substance, solely intended to impart a specific physicochemical 
characteristic, functions as intended.
    (8) Chemical substances which are not intentionally removed from the

[[Page 37]]

equipment in which they were manufactured.
    Note: See note to definition of ``intermediate'' at Sec. 710.3(d) 
for explanation of ``equipment in which it was manufactured.''

[42 FR 64572, Dec. 23, 1977, as amended at 68 FR 889, Jan. 7, 2003]


<R03>
PART 711_TSCA CHEMICAL DATA REPORTING REQUIREMENTS--Table of Contents



Sec.
711.1 Scope and compliance.
711.3 Definitions.
711.5 Chemical substances for which information must be reported.
711.6 Chemical substances for which information is not required.
711.8 Persons who must report.
711.9 Persons not subject to this part.
711.10 Activities for which reporting is not required.
711.15 Reporting information to EPA.
711.20 When to report.
711.22 Duplicative reporting.
711.25 Recordkeeping requirements.
711.30 Confidentiality claims.
711.35 Electronic filing.

    Authority: 15 U.S.C. 2607(a).

    Source: 76 FR 54933, Sept. 6, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

    Editorial Note: At 76 FR 50859, Aug. 16, 2011, part 711 was added; 
however, the amendment could not be incorporated because part 711 
already existed.


<R05>
Sec. 711.1  Scope and compliance.

    (a) This part specifies reporting and recordkeeping procedures under 
section 8(a) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) (15 U.S.C. 
2607(a)) for certain manufacturers (including importers) of chemical 
substances. Section 8(a) of TSCA authorizes the EPA Administrator to 
require reporting of information necessary for administration of TSCA, 
including issuing regulations for the purpose of compiling and keeping 
current the TSCA Chemical Substance Inventory (TSCA Inventory) as 
required by TSCA section 8(b). In accordance with TSCA section 8(b), EPA 
amends the TSCA Inventory to include new chemical substances 
manufactured (including imported) in the United States and reported 
under TSCA section 5(a)(1). EPA also revises the categories of chemical 
substances and makes other amendments as appropriate.
    (b) This part applies to the activities associated with the periodic 
update of information on a subset of the chemical substances included on 
the TSCA Inventory.
    (c) Section 15(3) of TSCA makes it unlawful for any person to fail 
or refuse to submit information required under this part. In addition, 
TSCA section 15(3) makes it unlawful for any person to fail to keep, and 
permit access to, records required by this part. Section 16 of TSCA 
provides that any person who violates a provision of TSCA section 15 is 
liable to the United States for a civil penalty and may be criminally 
prosecuted. Pursuant to TSCA section 17, the Federal Government may seek 
judicial relief to compel submission of TSCA section 8(a) information 
and to otherwise restrain any violation of TSCA section 15. (EPA does 
not intend to concentrate its enforcement efforts on insignificant 
clerical errors in reporting.)
    (d) Each person who reports under this part must maintain records 
that document information reported under this part and, in accordance 
with TSCA, permit access to, and the copying of, such records by EPA 
officials.


<R05>
Sec. 711.3  Definitions.

    The definitions in this section and the definitions in TSCA section 
3 apply to this part. In addition, the definitions in 40 CFR 704.3 also 
apply to this part, except the definitions manufacture and manufacturer 
in 40 CFR 704.3.
    CDX or Central Data Exchange means EPA's centralized electronic 
document receiving system, or its successors.
    Commercial use means the use of a chemical substance or a mixture 
containing a chemical substance (including as part of an article) in a 
commercial enterprise providing saleable goods or services.
    Consumer use means the use of a chemical substance or a mixture 
containing a chemical substance (including as part of an article) when 
sold to or made available to consumers for their use.
    e-CDRweb means the electronic, web-based tool provided by EPA for 
the completion and submission of the CDR data.

[[Page 38]]

    Industrial function means the intended physical or chemical 
characteristic for which a chemical substance or mixture is consumed as 
a reactant; incorporated into a formulation, mixture, reaction product, 
or article; repackaged; or used.
    Industrial use means use at a site at which one or more chemical 
substances or mixtures are manufactured (including imported) or 
processed.
    Intended for use by children means the chemical substance or mixture 
is used in or on a product that is specifically intended for use by 
children age 14 or younger. A chemical substance or mixture is intended 
for use by children when the submitter answers ``yes'' to at least one 
of the following questions for the product into which the submitter's 
chemical substance or mixture is incorporated:
    (1) Is the product commonly recognized (i.e., by a reasonable 
person) as being intended for children age 14 or younger?
    (2) Does the manufacturer of the product state through product 
labeling or other written materials that the product is intended for or 
will be used by children age 14 or younger?
    (3) Is the advertising, promotion, or marketing of the product aimed 
at children age 14 or younger?
    Manufacture means to manufacture, produce, or import, for commercial 
purposes. Manufacture includes the extraction, for commercial purposes, 
of a component chemical substance from a previously existing chemical 
substance or complex combination of chemical substances. When a chemical 
substance, manufactured other than by import, is:
    (1) Produced exclusively for another person who contracts for such 
production, and
    (2) That other person specifies the identity of the chemical 
substance and controls the total amount produced and the basic 
technology for the plant process, then that chemical substance is co-
manufactured by the producing manufacturer and the person contracting 
for such production.
    Manufacturer means a person who manufactures a chemical substance.
    Master Inventory File means EPA's comprehensive list of chemical 
substances which constitutes the TSCA Inventory compiled under TSCA 
section 8(b). It includes chemical substances reported under 40 CFR part 
710 and substances reported under 40 CFR part 720 for which a Notice of 
Commencement of Manufacture or Import has been received under 40 CFR 
720.120.
    Principal reporting year means the latest complete calendar year 
preceding the submission period.
    Reasonably likely to be exposed means an exposure to a chemical 
substance which, under foreseeable conditions of manufacture (including 
import), processing, distribution in commerce, or use of the chemical 
substance, is more likely to occur than not to occur. Such exposures 
would normally include, but would not be limited to, activities such as 
charging reactor vessels, drumming, bulk loading, cleaning equipment, 
maintenance operations, materials handling and transfers, and analytical 
operations. Covered exposures include exposures through any route of 
entry (inhalation, ingestion, skin contact, absorption, etc.), but 
excludes accidental or theoretical exposures.
    Repackaging means the physical transfer of a chemical substance or 
mixture, as is, from one container to another container or containers in 
preparation for distribution of the chemical substance or mixture in 
commerce.
    Reportable chemical substance means a chemical substance described 
in Sec. 711.5.
    Site means a contiguous property unit. Property divided only by a 
public right-of-way shall be considered one site. More than one 
manufacturing plant may be located on a single site.
    (1) For chemical substances manufactured under contract, i.e., by a 
toll manufacturer, the site is the location where the chemical substance 
is physically manufactured.
    (2) The site for an importer who imports a chemical substance 
described in Sec. 711.5 is the U.S. site of the operating unit within 
the person's organization that is directly responsible for importing the 
chemical substance. The import site, in some cases, may be the 
organization's headquarters in the United States. If there is no such 
operating unit or headquarters in the United

[[Page 39]]

States, the site address for the importer is the U.S. address of an 
agent acting on behalf of the importer who is authorized to accept 
service of process for the importer.
    (3) For portable manufacturing units sent to different locations 
from a single distribution center, the distribution center shall be 
considered the site.
    Site-limited means a chemical substance is manufactured and 
processed only within a site and is not distributed for commercial 
purposes as a chemical substance or as part of a mixture or article 
outside the site. Imported chemical substances are never site-limited. 
Although a site-limited chemical substance is not distributed for 
commercial purposes outside the site at which it is manufactured and 
processed, the chemical substance is considered to have been 
manufactured and processed for commercial purposes.
    Submission period means the period in which the manufacturing, 
processing, and use data are submitted to EPA.
    U.S. parent company means the highest level company, located in the 
United States, that directly owns at least 50% of the voting stock of 
the manufacturer.
    Use means any utilization of a chemical substance or mixture that is 
not otherwise covered by the terms manufacture or process. Relabeling or 
redistributing a container holding a chemical substance or mixture where 
no repackaging of the chemical substance or mixture occurs does not 
constitute use or processing of the chemical substance or mixture.


<R05>
Sec. 711.5  Chemical substances for which information must be reported.

    Any chemical substance that is in the Master Inventory File at the 
beginning of a submission period described in Sec. 711.20, unless the 
chemical substance is specifically excluded by Sec. 711.6.


<R05>
Sec. 711.6  Chemical substances for which information is not required.

    The following groups or categories of chemical substances are 
exempted from some or all of the reporting requirements of this part, 
with the following exception: A chemical substance described in 
paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(4), or (b) of this section is not 
exempted from any of the reporting requirements of this part if that 
chemical substance is the subject of a rule proposed or promulgated 
under TSCA section 4, 5(a)(2), 5(b)(4), or 6, or is the subject of an 
enforceable consent agreement (ECA) developed under the procedures of 40 
CFR part 790, or is the subject of an order issued under TSCA section 
5(e) or 5(f), or is the subject of relief that has been granted under a 
civil action under TSCA section 5 or 7.
    (a) Full exemptions. The following categories of chemical substances 
are exempted from the reporting requirements of this part.
    (1) Polymers--(i) Any chemical substance described with the word 
fragments ``*polym,'' ``*alkyd,'' or ``*oxylated'' in the Chemical 
Abstracts (CA) Index Name in the Master Inventory File, where the 
asterisk (*) in the listed word fragments indicates that any sets of 
characters may precede, or follow, the character string defined.
    (ii) Any chemical substance that is identified in the Master 
Inventory File as an enzyme, lignin, a polysaccharide (cellulose, gum, 
starch), a protein (albumin, casein, gelatin, gluten, hemoglobin), 
rubber, siloxane and silicone, or silsesquioxane.
    (iii) This exclusion does not apply to a polymeric substance that 
has been depolymerized, hydrolyzed, or otherwise chemically modified, 
except in cases where the intended product of this reaction is totally 
polymeric in structure.
    (2) Microorganisms. Any combination of chemical substances that is a 
living organism, and that meets the definition of microorganism at 40 
CFR 725.3. Any chemical substance produced from a living microorganism 
is reportable under this part unless otherwise excluded.
    (3) Naturally occurring chemical substances. Any naturally occurring 
chemical substance, as described in 40 CFR 710.4(b). The applicability 
of this exclusion is determined in each case by the specific activities 
of the person who manufactures the chemical substance in question. Some 
chemical substances can be manufactured both as described in 40 CFR 
710.4(b) and by means other than those described in 40 CFR 710.4(b).

[[Page 40]]

If a person described in Sec. 711.8 manufactures a chemical substance 
by means other than those described in 40 CFR 710.4(b), the person must 
report regardless of whether the chemical substance also could have been 
produced as described in 40 CFR 710.4(b). Any chemical substance that is 
produced from such a naturally occurring chemical substance described in 
40 CFR 710.4(b) is reportable unless otherwise excluded.
    (4) Certain forms of natural gas and water. Chemical substances with 
the following Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number (CASRN): CASRN 
7732-18-5, water; CASRN 8006-14-2, natural gas; CASRN 8006-61-9, 
gasoline, natural; CASRN 64741-48-6, natural gas (petroleum), raw liq. 
mix; CASRN 68410-63-9, natural gas, dried; CASRN 68425-31-0, gasoline 
(natural gas), natural; and CASRN 68919-39-1, natural gas condensates.
    (b) Partial exemptions. The following groups of chemical substances 
are partially exempted from the reporting requirements of this part 
(i.e., the information described in Sec. 711.15(b)(4) need not be 
reported for these chemical substances). Such chemical substances are 
not excluded from the other reporting requirements under this part.
    (1) Petroleum process streams. EPA has designated the chemical 
substances listed in Table 1 of this paragraph by CASRN, as partially 
exempt from reporting under the CDR.

     Table 1--CASRNs of Partially Exempt Chemical Substances Termed
    ``Petroleum Process Streams'' for Purposes of TSCA Chemical Data
                                Reporting
------------------------------------------------------------------------
               CASRN                               Product
------------------------------------------------------------------------
8002-05-9.........................  Petroleum.
8002-74-2.........................  Paraffin waxes and hydrocarbon
                                     waxes.
8006-20-0.........................  Fuel gases, low and medium B.T.U.
8008-20-6.........................  Kerosine (petroleum).
8009-03-8.........................  Petrolatum.
8012-95-1.........................  Paraffin oils.
8030-30-6.........................  Naphtha.
8032-32-4.........................  Ligroine.
8042-47-5.........................  White mineral oil (petroleum).
8052-41-3.........................  Stoddard solvent.
8052-42-4.........................  Asphalt.
61789-60-4........................  Pitch.
63231-60-7........................  Paraffin waxes and hydrocarbon
                                     waxes, microcryst.
64741-41-9........................  Naphtha (petroleum), heavy straight-
                                     run.
64741-42-0........................  Naphtha (petroleum), full-range
                                     straight-run.
64741-43-1........................  Gas oils (petroleum), straight-run.
64741-44-2........................  Distillates (petroleum), straight-
                                     run middle.
64741-45-3........................  Residues (petroleum), atm. tower.
64741-46-4........................  Naphtha (petroleum), light straight-
                                     run.
64741-47-5........................  Natural gas condensates (petroleum).
64741-49-7........................  Condensates (petroleum), vacuum
                                     tower.
64741-50-0........................  Distillates (petroleum), light
                                     paraffinic.
64741-51-1........................  Distillates (petroleum), heavy
                                     paraffinic.
64741-52-2........................  Distillates (petroleum), light
                                     naphthenic.
64741-53-3........................  Distillates (petroleum), heavy
                                     naphthenic.
64741-54-4........................  Naphtha (petroleum), heavy catalytic
                                     cracked.
64741-55-5........................  Naphtha (petroleum), light catalytic
                                     cracked.
64741-56-6........................  Residues (petroleum), vacuum.
64741-57-7........................  Gas oils (petroleum), heavy vacuum.
64741-58-8........................  Gas oils (petroleum), light vacuum.
64741-59-9........................  Distillates (petroleum), light
                                     catalytic cracked.
64741-60-2........................  Distillates (petroleum),
                                     intermediate catalytic cracked.
64741-61-3........................  Distillates (petroleum), heavy
                                     catalytic cracked.
64741-62-4........................  Clarified oils (petroleum),
                                     catalytic cracked.
64741-63-5........................  Naphtha (petroleum), light catalytic
                                     reformed.
64741-64-6........................  Naphtha (petroleum), full-range
                                     alkylate.
64741-65-7........................  Naphtha (petroleum), heavy alkylate.
64741-66-8........................  Naphtha (petroleum), light alkylate.
64741-67-9........................  Residues (petroleum), catalytic
                                     reformer fractionator.
64741-68-0........................  Naphtha (petroleum), heavy catalytic
                                     reformed.
64741-69-1........................  Naphtha (petroleum), light
                                     hydrocracked.
64741-70-4........................  Naphtha (petroleum), isomerization.
64741-73-7........................  Distillates (petroleum), alkylate.
64741-74-8........................  Naphtha (petroleum), light thermal
                                     cracked.
64741-75-9........................  Residues (petroleum), hydrocracked.
64741-76-0........................  Distillates (petroleum), heavy
                                     hydrocracked.

[[Page 41]]

 
64741-77-1........................  Distillates (petroleum), light
                                     hydrocracked.
64741-78-2........................  Naphtha (petroleum), heavy
                                     hydrocracked.
64741-79-3........................  Coke (petroleum).
64741-80-6........................  Residues (petroleum), thermal
                                     cracked.
64741-81-7........................  Distillates (petroleum), heavy
                                     thermal cracked.
64741-82-8........................  Distillates (petroleum), light
                                     thermal cracked.
64741-83-9........................  Naphtha (petroleum), heavy thermal
                                     cracked.
64741-84-0........................  Naphtha (petroleum), solvent-refined
                                     light.
64741-85-1........................  Raffinates (petroleum), sorption
                                     process.
64741-86-2........................  Distillates (petroleum), sweetened
                                     middle.
64741-87-3........................  Naphtha (petroleum), sweetened.
64741-88-4........................  Distillates (petroleum), solvent-
                                     refined heavy paraffinic.
64741-89-5........................  Distillates (petroleum), solvent-
                                     refined light paraffinic.
64741-90-8........................  Gas oils (petroleum), solvent-
                                     refined.
64741-91-9........................  Distillates (petroleum), solvent-
                                     refined middle.
64741-92-0........................  Naphtha (petroleum), solvent-refined
                                     heavy.
64741-95-3........................  Residual oils (petroleum), solvent
                                     deasphalted.
64741-96-4........................  Distillates (petroleum), solvent-
                                     refined heavy naphthenic.
64741-97-5........................  Distillates (petroleum), solvent-
                                     refined light naphthenic.
64741-98-6........................  Extracts (petroleum), heavy naphtha
                                     solvent.
64741-99-7........................  Extracts (petroleum), light naphtha
                                     solvent.
64742-01-4........................  Residual oils (petroleum), solvent-
                                     refined.
64742-03-6........................  Extracts (petroleum), light
                                     naphthenic distillate solvent.
64742-04-7........................  Extracts (petroleum), heavy
                                     paraffinic distillate solvent.
64742-05-8........................  Extracts (petroleum), light
                                     paraffinic distillate solvent.
64742-06-9........................  Extracts (petroleum), middle
                                     distillate solvent.
64742-07-0........................  Raffinates (petroleum), residual oil
                                     decarbonization.
64742-08-1........................  Raffinates (petroleum), heavy
                                     naphthenic distillate
                                     decarbonization.
64742-09-2........................  Raffinates (petroleum), heavy
                                     paraffinic distillate
                                     decarbonization.
64742-10-5........................  Extracts (petroleum), residual oil
                                     solvent.
64742-11-6........................  Extracts (petroleum), heavy
                                     naphthenic distillate solvent.
64742-12-7........................  Gas oils (petroleum), acid-treated.
64742-13-8........................  Distillates (petroleum), acid-
                                     treated middle.
64742-14-9........................  Distillates (petroleum), acid-
                                     treated light.
64742-15-0........................  Naphtha (petroleum), acid-treated.
64742-16-1........................  Petroleum resins.
64742-18-3........................  Distillates (petroleum), acid-
                                     treated heavy naphthenic.
64742-19-4........................  Distillates (petroleum), acid-
                                     treated light naphthenic.
64742-20-7........................  Distillates (petroleum), acid-
                                     treated heavy paraffinic.
64742-21-8........................  Distillates (petroleum), acid-
                                     treated light paraffinic.
64742-22-9........................  Naphtha (petroleum), chemically
                                     neutralized heavy.
64742-23-0........................  Naphtha (petroleum), chemically
                                     neutralized light.
64742-24-1........................  Sludges (petroleum), acid.
64742-25-2........................  Lubricating oils (petroleum), acid-
                                     treated spent.
64742-26-3........................  Hydrocarbon waxes (petroleum), acid-
                                     treated.
64742-27-4........................  Distillates (petroleum), chemically
                                     neutralized heavy paraffinic.
64742-28-5........................  Distillates (petroleum), chemically
                                     neutralized light paraffinic.
64742-29-6........................  Gas oils (petroleum), chemically
                                     neutralized.
64742-30-9........................  Distillates (petroleum), chemically
                                     neutralized middle.
64742-31-0........................  Distillates (petroleum), chemically
                                     neutralized light.
64742-32-1........................  Lubricating oils (petroleum),
                                     chemically neutralized spent.
64742-33-2........................  Hydrocarbon waxes (petroleum),
                                     chemically neutralized.
64742-34-3........................  Distillates (petroleum), chemically
                                     neutralized heavy naphthenic.
64742-35-4........................  Distillates (petroleum), chemically
                                     neutralized light naphthenic.
64742-36-5........................  Distillates (petroleum), clay-
                                     treated heavy paraffinic.
64742-37-6........................  Distillates (petroleum), clay-
                                     treated light paraffinic.
64742-38-7........................  Distillates (petroleum), clay-
                                     treated middle.
64742-39-8........................  Neutralizing agents (petroleum),
                                     spent sodium carbonate.
64742-40-1........................  Neutralizing agents (petroleum),
                                     spent sodium hydroxide.
64742-41-2........................  Residual oils (petroleum), clay-
                                     treated.
64742-42-3........................  Hydrocarbon waxes (petroleum), clay-
                                     treated microcryst.
64742-43-4........................  Paraffin waxes (petroleum), clay-
                                     treated.
64742-44-5........................  Distillates (petroleum), clay-
                                     treated heavy naphthenic.
64742-45-6........................  Distillates (petroleum), clay-
                                     treated light naphthenic.
64742-46-7........................  Distillates (petroleum),
                                     hydrotreated middle.
64742-47-8........................  Distillates (petroleum),
                                     hydrotreated light.
64742-48-9........................  Naphtha (petroleum), hydrotreated
                                     heavy.
64742-49-0........................  Naphtha (petroleum), hydrotreated
                                     light.
64742-50-3........................  Lubricating oils (petroleum), clay-
                                     treated spent.
64742-51-4........................  Paraffin waxes (petroleum),
                                     hydrotreated.
64742-52-5........................  Distillates (petroleum),
                                     hydrotreated heavy naphthenic.

[[Page 42]]

 
64742-53-6........................  Distillates (petroleum),
                                     hydrotreated light naphthenic.
64742-54-7........................  Distillates (petroleum),
                                     hydrotreated heavy paraffinic.
64742-55-8........................  Distillates (petroleum),
                                     hydrotreated light paraffinic.
64742-56-9........................  Distillates (petroleum), solvent-
                                     dewaxed light paraffinic.
64742-57-0........................  Residual oils (petroleum),
                                     hydrotreated.
64742-58-1........................  Lubricating oils (petroleum),
                                     hydrotreated spent.
64742-59-2........................  Gas oils (petroleum), hydrotreated
                                     vacuum.
64742-60-5........................  Hydrocarbon waxes (petroleum),
                                     hydrotreated microcryst.
64742-61-6........................  Slack wax (petroleum).
64742-62-7........................  Residual oils (petroleum), solvent-
                                     dewaxed.
64742-63-8........................  Distillates (petroleum), solvent-
                                     dewaxed heavy naphthenic.
64742-64-9........................  Distillates (petroleum), solvent-
                                     dewaxed light naphthenic.
64742-65-0........................  Distillates (petroleum), solvent-
                                     dewaxed heavy paraffinic.
64742-67-2........................  Foots oil (petroleum).
64742-68-3........................  Naphthenic oils (petroleum),
                                     catalytic dewaxed heavy.
64742-69-4........................  Naphthenic oils (petroleum),
                                     catalytic dewaxed light.
64742-70-7........................  Paraffin oils (petroleum), catalytic
                                     dewaxed heavy.
64742-71-8........................  Paraffin oils (petroleum), catalytic
                                     dewaxed light.
64742-72-9........................  Distillates (petroleum), catalytic
                                     dewaxed middle.
64742-73-0........................  Naphtha (petroleum),
                                     hydrodesulfurized light.
64742-75-2........................  Naphthenic oils (petroleum), complex
                                     dewaxed heavy.
64742-76-3........................  Naphthenic oils (petroleum), complex
                                     dewaxed light.
64742-78-5........................  Residues (petroleum),
                                     hydrodesulfurized atmospheric
                                     tower.
64742-79-6........................  Gas oils (petroleum),
                                     hydrodesulfurized.
64742-80-9........................  Distillates (petroleum),
                                     hydrodesulfurized middle.
64742-81-0........................  Kerosine (petroleum),
                                     hydrodesulfurized.
64742-82-1........................  Naphtha (petroleum),
                                     hydrodesulfurized heavy.
64742-83-2........................  Naphtha (petroleum), light steam-
                                     cracked.
64742-85-4........................  Residues (petroleum),
                                     hydrodesulfurized vacuum.
64742-86-5........................  Gas oils (petroleum),
                                     hydrodesulfurized heavy vacuum.
64742-87-6........................  Gas oils (petroleum),
                                     hydrodesulfurized light vacuum.
64742-88-7........................  Solvent naphtha (petroleum), medium
                                     aliph.
64742-89-8........................  Solvent naphtha (petroleum), light
                                     aliph.
64742-90-1........................  Residues (petroleum), steam-cracked.
64742-91-2........................  Distillates (petroleum), steam-
                                     cracked.
64742-92-3........................  Petroleum resins, oxidized.
64742-93-4........................  Asphalt, oxidized.
64742-94-5........................  Solvent naphtha (petroleum), heavy
                                     arom.
64742-95-6........................  Solvent naphtha (petroleum), light
                                     arom.
64742-96-7........................  Solvent naphtha (petroleum), heavy
                                     aliph.
64742-97-8........................  Distillates (petroleum), oxidized
                                     heavy.
64742-98-9........................  Distillates (petroleum), oxidized
                                     light.
64742-99-0........................  Residual oils (petroleum), oxidized.
64743-00-6........................  Hydrocarbon waxes (petroleum),
                                     oxidized.
64743-01-7........................  Petrolatum (petroleum), oxidized.
64743-02-8........................  Alkenes, C<ls-thn-eq>10 .alpha.-.
64743-03-9........................  Phenols (petroleum).
64743-04-0........................  Coke (petroleum), recovery.
64743-05-1........................  Coke (petroleum), calcined.
64743-06-2........................  Extracts (petroleum), gas oil
                                     solvent.
64743-07-3........................  Sludges (petroleum), chemically
                                     neutralized.
64754-89-8........................  Naphthenic acids (petroleum), crude.
64771-71-7........................  Paraffins (petroleum), normal C<ls-
                                     thn-eq>10.
64771-72-8........................  Paraffins (petroleum), normal C5-20.
67254-74-4........................  Naphthenic oils.
67674-12-8........................  Residual oils (petroleum), oxidized,
                                     compounds with triethanolamine.
67674-13-9........................  Petrolatum (petroleum), oxidized,
                                     partially deacidified.
67674-15-1........................  Petrolatum (petroleum), oxidized, Me
                                     ester.
67674-16-2........................  Hydrocarbon waxes (petroleum),
                                     oxidized, partially deacidified.
67674-17-3........................  Distillates (petroleum), oxidized
                                     light, compounds with
                                     triethanolamine.
67674-18-4........................  Distillates (petroleum), oxidized
                                     light, Bu esters.
67891-79-6........................  Distillates (petroleum), heavy arom.
67891-80-9........................  Distillates (petroleum), light arom.
67891-81-0........................  Distillates (petroleum), oxidized
                                     light, potassium salts.
67891-82-1........................  Hydrocarbon waxes (petroleum),
                                     oxidized, compounds with
                                     ethanolamine.
67891-83-2........................  Hydrocarbon waxes (petroleum),
                                     oxidized, compounds with
                                     isopropanolamine.
67891-85-4........................  Hydrocarbon waxes (petroleum),
                                     oxidized, compounds with
                                     triisopropanolamine.
67891-86-5........................  Hydrocarbon waxes (petroleum),
                                     oxidized, compds. with
                                     diisopropanolamine.
68131-05-5........................  Hydrocarbon oils, process blends.
68131-49-7........................  Aromatic hydrocarbons, C6-10, acid-
                                     treated, neutralized.
68131-75-9........................  Gases (petroleum), C3-4.

[[Page 43]]

 
68153-22-0........................  Paraffin waxes and Hydrocarbon
                                     waxes, oxidized.
68187-57-5........................  Pitch, coal tar-petroleum.
68187-58-6........................  Pitch, petroleum, arom.
68187-60-0........................  Hydrocarbons, C4, ethane-propane-
                                     cracked.
68307-98-2........................  Tail gas (petroleum), catalytic
                                     cracked distillate and catalytic
                                     cracked naphtha fractionation
                                     absorber.
68307-99-3........................  Tail gas (petroleum), catalytic
                                     polymn. naphtha fractionation
                                     stabilizer.
68308-00-9........................  Tail gas (petroleum), catalytic
                                     reformed naphtha fractionation
                                     stabilizer, hydrogen sulfide-free.
68308-01-0........................  Tail gas (petroleum), cracked
                                     distillate hydrotreater stripper.
68308-02-1........................  Tail gas (petroleum), distn.,
                                     hydrogen sulfide-free.
68308-03-2........................  Tail gas (petroleum), gas oil
                                     catalytic cracking absorber.
68308-04-3........................  Tail gas (petroleum), gas recovery
                                     plant.
68308-05-4........................  Tail gas (petroleum), gas recovery
                                     plant deethanizer.
68308-06-5........................  Tail gas (petroleum),
                                     hydrodesulfurized distillate and
                                     hydrodesulfurized naphtha
                                     fractionator, acid-free.
68308-07-6........................  Tail gas (petroleum),
                                     hydrodesulfurized vacuum gas oil
                                     stripper, hydrogen sulfide-free.
68308-08-7........................  Tail gas (petroleum), isomerized
                                     naphtha fractionation stabilizer.
68308-09-8........................  Tail gas (petroleum), light straight-
                                     run naphtha stabilizer, hydrogen
                                     sulfide-free.
68308-10-1........................  Tail gas (petroleum), straight-run
                                     distillate hydrodesulfurizer,
                                     hydrogen sulfide-free.
68308-11-2........................  Tail gas (petroleum), propane-
                                     propylene alkylation feed prep
                                     deethanizer.
68308-12-3........................  Tail gas (petroleum), vacuum gas oil
                                     hydrodesulfurizer, hydrogen sulfide-
                                     free.
68308-27-0........................  Fuel gases, refinery.
68333-22-2........................  Residues (petroleum), atmospheric.
68333-23-3........................  Naphtha (petroleum), heavy coker.
68333-24-4........................  Hydrocarbon waxes (petroleum),
                                     oxidized, compds. with
                                     triethanolamine.
68333-25-5........................  Distillates (petroleum),
                                     hydrodesulfurized light catalytic
                                     cracked.
68333-26-6........................  Clarified oils (petroleum),
                                     hydrodesulfurized catalytic
                                     cracked.
68333-27-7........................  Distillates (petroleum),
                                     hydrodesulfurized intermediate
                                     catalytic cracked.
68333-28-8........................  Distillates (petroleum),
                                     hydrodesulfurized heavy catalytic
                                     cracked.
68333-29-9........................  Residues (petroleum), light naphtha
                                     solvent extracts.
68333-30-2........................  Distillates (petroleum), oxidized
                                     heavy thermal cracked.
68333-81-3........................  Alkanes, C4-12.
68333-88-0........................  Aromatic hydrocarbons, C9-17.
68334-30-5........................  Fuels, diesel.
68409-99-4........................  Gases (petroleum), catalytic cracked
                                     overheads.
68410-00-4........................  Distillates (petroleum), crude oil.
68410-05-9........................  Distillates (petroleum), straight-
                                     run light.
68410-12-8........................  Distillates (petroleum), steam-
                                     cracked, C5-10 fraction, high-
                                     temperature stripping products with
                                     light steam-cracked petroleum
                                     naphtha C5 fraction polymers.
68410-71-9........................  Raffinates (petroleum), catalytic
                                     reformer ethylene glycol-water
                                     countercurrent exts.
68410-96-8........................  Distillates (petroleum),
                                     hydrotreated middle, intermediate
                                     boiling.
68410-97-9........................  Distillates (petroleum), light
                                     distillate hydrotreating process,
                                     low-boiling.
68410-98-0........................  Distillates (petroleum),
                                     hydrotreated heavy naphtha,
                                     deisohexanizer overheads.
68411-00-7........................  Alkenes, C<ls-thn-eq>8.
68425-29-6........................  Distillates (petroleum), naphtha-
                                     raffinate pyrolyzate-derived,
                                     gasoline-blending.
68425-33-2........................  Petrolatum (petroleum), oxidized,
                                     barium salt.
68425-34-3........................  Petrolatum (petroleum), oxidized,
                                     calcium salt.
68425-35-4........................  Raffinates (petroleum), reformer,
                                     Lurgi unit-sepd.
68425-39-8........................  Alkenes, C<ls-thn-eq>10 .alpha.-,
                                     oxidized.
68441-09-8........................  Hydrocarbon waxes (petroleum), clay-
                                     treated microcryst., contg.
                                     polyethylene, oxidized.
68459-78-9........................  Alkenes, C18-24 .alpha.-, dimers.
68475-57-0........................  Alkanes, C1-2.
68475-58-1........................  Alkanes, C2-3.
68475-59-2........................  Alkanes, C3-4.
68475-60-5........................  Alkanes, C4-5.
68475-61-6........................  Alkenes, C5, naphtha-raffinate
                                     pyrolyzate-derived.
68475-70-7........................  Aromatic hydrocarbons, C6-8, naphtha-
                                     raffinate pyrolyzate-derived.
68475-79-6........................  Distillates (petroleum), catalytic
                                     reformed depentanizer.
68475-80-9........................  Distillates (petroleum), light steam-
                                     cracked naphtha.
68476-26-6........................  Fuel gases.
68476-27-7........................  Fuel gases, amine system residues.
68476-28-8........................  Fuel gases, C6-8 catalytic reformer.
68476-29-9........................  Fuel gases, crude oil distillates.
68476-30-2........................  Fuel oil, no. 2.
68476-31-3........................  Fuel oil, no. 4.
68476-32-4........................  Fuel oil, residues-straight-run gas
                                     oils, high-sulfur.
68476-33-5........................  Fuel oil, residual.
68476-34-6........................  Fuels, diesel, no. 2.
68476-39-1........................  Hydrocarbons, aliph.-arom.-C4-5-
                                     olefinic.
68476-40-4........................  Hydrocarbons, C3-4.
68476-42-6........................  Hydrocarbons, C4-5.

[[Page 44]]

 
68476-43-7........................  Hydrocarbons, C4-6, C5-rich.
68476-44-8........................  Hydrocarbons, C<ls-thn-eq>3.
68476-45-9........................  Hydrocarbons, C5-10 arom. conc.,
                                     ethylene-manuf.-by-product.
68476-46-0........................  Hydrocarbons, C3-11, catalytic
                                     cracker distillates.
68476-47-1........................  Hydrocarbons, C2-6, C6-8 catalytic
                                     reformer.
68476-49-3........................  Hydrocarbons, C2-4, C3-rich.
68476-50-6........................  Hydrocarbons, C<ls-thn-eq>=5, C5-6-
                                     rich.
68476-52-8........................  Hydrocarbons, C4, ethylene-manuf.-by-
                                     product.
68476-53-9........................  Hydrocarbons, C<ls-thn-eq>=20,
                                     petroleum wastes.
68476-54-0........................  Hydrocarbons, C3-5, polymn. unit
                                     feed.
68476-55-1........................  Hydrocarbons, C5-rich.
68476-56-2........................  Hydrocarbons, cyclic C5 and C6.
68476-77-7........................  Lubricating oils, refined used.
68476-81-3........................  Paraffin waxes and Hydrocarbon
                                     waxes, oxidized, calcium salts.
68476-84-6........................  Petroleum products, gases, inorg.
68476-85-7........................  Petroleum gases, liquefied.
68476-86-8........................  Petroleum gases, liquefied,
                                     sweetened.
68477-25-8........................  Waste gases, vent gas, C1-6.
68477-26-9........................  Wastes, petroleum.
68477-29-2........................  Distillates (petroleum), catalytic
                                     reformer fractionator residue, high-
                                     boiling.
68477-30-5........................  Distillates (petroleum), catalytic
                                     reformer fractionator residue,
                                     intermediate-boiling.
68477-31-6........................  Distillates (petroleum), catalytic
                                     reformer fractionator residue, low-
                                     boiling.
68477-33-8........................  Gases (petroleum), C3-4, isobutane-
                                     rich.
68477-34-9........................  Distillates (petroleum), C3-5, 2-
                                     methyl-2-butene-rich.
68477-35-0........................  Distillates (petroleum), C3-6,
                                     piperylene-rich.
68477-36-1........................  Distillates (petroleum), cracked
                                     steam-cracked, C5-18 fraction.
68477-38-3........................  Distillates (petroleum), cracked
                                     steam-cracked petroleum
                                     distillates.
68477-39-4........................  Distillates (petroleum), cracked
                                     stripped steam-cracked petroleum
                                     distillates, C8-10 fraction.
68477-40-7........................  Distillates (petroleum), cracked
                                     stripped steam-cracked petroleum
                                     distillates, C10-12 fraction.
68477-41-8........................  Gases (petroleum), extractive, C3-5,
                                     butadiene-butene-rich.
68477-42-9........................  Gases (petroleum), extractive, C3-5,
                                     butene-isobutylene-rich.
68477-44-1........................  Distillates (petroleum), heavy
                                     naphthenic, mixed with steam-
                                     cracked petroleum distillates C5-12
                                     fraction.
68477-47-4........................  Distillates (petroleum), mixed heavy
                                     olefin vacuum, heart-cut.
68477-48-5........................  Distillates (petroleum), mixed heavy
                                     olefin vacuum, low-boiling.
68477-53-2........................  Distillates (petroleum), steam-
                                     cracked, C5-12 fraction.
68477-54-3........................  Distillates (petroleum), steam-
                                     cracked, C8-12 fraction.
68477-55-4........................  Distillates (petroleum), steam-
                                     cracked, C5-10 fraction, mixed with
                                     light steam-cracked petroleum
                                     naphtha C5 fraction.
68477-58-7........................  Distillates (petroleum), steam-
                                     cracked petroleum distillates, C5-
                                     18 fraction.
68477-59-8........................  Distillates (petroleum), steam-
                                     cracked petroleum distillates
                                     cyclopentadiene conc.
68477-60-1........................  Extracts (petroleum), cold-acid.
68477-61-2........................  Extracts (petroleum), cold-acid, C4-
                                     6.
68477-62-3........................  Extracts (petroleum), cold-acid, C3-
                                     5, butene-rich.
68477-63-4........................  Extracts (petroleum), reformer
                                     recycle.
68477-64-5........................  Gases (petroleum), acetylene manuf.
                                     off.
68477-65-6........................  Gases (petroleum), amine system
                                     feed.
68477-66-7........................  Gases (petroleum), benzene unit
                                     hydrodesulfurizer off.
68477-67-8........................  Gases (petroleum), benzene unit
                                     recycle, hydrogen-rich.
68477-68-9........................  Gases (petroleum), blend oil,
                                     hydrogen-nitrogen-rich.
68477-69-0........................  Gases (petroleum), butane splitter
                                     overheads.
68477-70-3........................  Gases (petroleum), C2-3.
68477-71-4........................  Gases (petroleum), catalytic-cracked
                                     gas oil depropanizer bottoms, C4-
                                     rich acid-free.
68477-72-5........................  Gases (petroleum), catalytic-cracked
                                     naphtha debutanizer bottoms, C3-5-
                                     rich.
68477-73-6........................  Gases (petroleum), catalytic cracked
                                     naphtha depropanizer overhead, C3-
                                     rich acid-free.
68477-74-7........................  Gases (petroleum), catalytic
                                     cracker.
68477-75-8........................  Gases (petroleum), catalytic
                                     cracker, C1-5-rich.
68477-76-9........................  Gases (petroleum), catalytic polymd.
                                     naphtha stabilizer overhead, C2-4-
                                     rich.
68477-77-0........................  Gases (petroleum), catalytic
                                     reformed naphtha stripper
                                     overheads.
68477-79-2........................  Gases (petroleum), catalytic
                                     reformer, C1-4-rich.
68477-80-5........................  Gases (petroleum), C6-8 catalytic
                                     reformer recycle.
68477-81-6........................  Gases (petroleum), C6-8 catalytic
                                     reformer.
68477-82-.7.......................  Gases (petroleum), C6-8 catalytic
                                     reformer recycle, hydrogen-rich.
68477-83-8........................  Gases (petroleum), C3-5 olefinic-
                                     paraffinic alkylation feed.
68477-84-9........................  Gases (petroleum), C2-return stream.
68477-85-0........................  Gases (petroleum), C4-rich.
68477-86-1........................  Gases (petroleum), deethanizer
                                     overheads.
68477-87-2........................  Gases (petroleum), deisobutanizer
                                     tower overheads.
68477-88-3........................  Gases (petroleum), deethanizer
                                     overheads, C3-rich.
68477-89-4........................  Distillates (petroleum),
                                     depentanizer overheads.
68477-90-7........................  Gases (petroleum), depropanizer dry,
                                     propene-rich.

[[Page 45]]

 
68477-91-8........................  Gases (petroleum), depropanizer
                                     overheads.
68477-92-9........................  Gases (petroleum), dry sour, gas-
                                     concentration concn.-unit-off.
68477-93-0........................  Gases (petroleum), gas concn.
                                     reabsorber distn.
68477-94-1........................  Gases (petroleum), gas recovery
                                     plant depropanizer overheads
68477-95-2........................  Gases (petroleum), Girbatol unit
                                     feed.
68477-96-3........................  Gases (petroleum), hydrogen absorber
                                     off.
68477-97-4........................  Gases (petroleum), hydrogen-rich.
68477-98-5........................  Gases (petroleum), hydrotreater
                                     blend oil recycle, hydrogen-
                                     nitrogen rich.
68477-99-6........................  Gases (petroleum), isomerized
                                     naphtha fractionater, C4-rich,
                                     hydrogen sulfide-free.
68478-00-2........................  Gases (petroleum), recycle, hydrogen-
                                     rich.
68478-01-3........................  Gases (petroleum), reformer make-up,
                                     hydrogen-rich.
68478-02-4........................  Gases (petroleum), reforming
                                     hydrotreater.
68478-03-5........................  Gases (petroleum), reforming
                                     hydrotreater, hydrogen-methane-
                                     rich.
68478-04-6........................  Gases (petroleum), reforming
                                     hydrotreater make-up, hydrogen-
                                     rich.
68478-05-7........................  Gases (petroleum), thermal cracking
                                     distn.
68478-08-0........................  Naphtha (petroleum), light steam-
                                     cracked, C5-fraction, oligomer
                                     conc.
68478-10-4........................  Naphtha (petroleum), light steam-
                                     cracked, debenzenized, C8-16-
                                     cycloalkadiene conc.
68478-12-6........................  Residues (petroleum), butane
                                     splitter bottoms.
68478-13-7........................  Residues (petroleum), catalytic
                                     reformer fractionator residue
                                     distn.
68478-15-9........................  Residues (petroleum), C6-8 catalytic
                                     reformer.
68478-16-0........................  Residual oils (petroleum),
                                     deisobutanizer tower.
68478-17-1........................  Residues (petroleum), heavy coker
                                     gas oil and vacuum gas oil.
68478-18-2........................  Residues (petroleum), heavy olefin
                                     vacuum.
68478-19-3........................  Residual oils (petroleum), propene
                                     purifn. splitter.
68478-20-6........................  Residues (petroleum), steam-cracked
                                     petroleum distillates
                                     cyclopentadiene conc., C4-
                                     cyclopentadiene-free.
68478-22-8........................  Tail gas (petroleum), catalytic
                                     cracked naphtha stabilization
                                     absorber.
68478-24-0........................  Tail gas (petroleum), catalytic
                                     cracker, catalytic reformer and
                                     hydrodesulfurizer combined
                                     fractionater.
68478-25-1........................  Tail gas (petroleum), catalytic
                                     cracker refractionation absorber.
68478-26-2........................  Tail gas (petroleum), catalytic
                                     reformed naphtha fractionation
                                     stabilizer.
68478-27-3........................  Tail gas (petroleum), catalytic
                                     reformed naphtha separator.
68478-28-4........................  Tail gas (petroleum), catalytic
                                     reformed naphtha stabilizer.
68478-29-5........................  Tail gas (petroleum), cracked
                                     distillate hydrotreater separator.
68478-30-8........................  Tail gas (petroleum),
                                     hydrodesulfurized straight-run
                                     naphtha separator.
68478-31-9........................  Tail gas (petroleum), isomerized
                                     naphtha fractionates, hydrogen
                                     sulfide-free.
68478-32-0........................  Tail gas (petroleum), saturate gas
                                     plant mixed stream, C4-rich.
68478-33-1........................  Tail gas (petroleum), saturate gas
                                     recovery plant, C1-2-rich.
68478-34-2........................  Tail gas (petroleum), vacuum
                                     residues thermal cracker.
68512-61-8........................  Residues (petroleum), heavy coker
                                     and light vacuum.
68512-62-9........................  Residues (petroleum), light vacuum.
68512-78-7........................  Solvent naphtha (petroleum), light
                                     arom., hydrotreated.
68512-91-4........................  Hydrocarbons, C3-4-rich, petroleum
                                     distillates.
68513-02-0........................  Naphtha (petroleum), full-range
                                     coker.
68513-03-1........................  Naphtha (petroleum), light catalytic
                                     reformed, arom.-free.
68513-11-1........................  Fuel gases, hydrotreater
                                     fractionation, scrubbed.
68513-12-2........................  Fuel gases, saturate gas unit
                                     fractionater-absorber overheads.
68513-13-3........................  Fuel gases, thermal cracked
                                     catalytic cracking residue.
68513-14-4........................  Gases (petroleum), catalytic
                                     reformed straight-run naphtha
                                     stabilizer overheads.
68513-15-5........................  Gases (petroleum), full-range
                                     straight-run naphtha dehexanizer
                                     off.
68513-16-6........................  Gases (petroleum), hydrocracking
                                     depropanizer off, hydrocarbon-rich.
68513-17-7........................  Gases (petroleum), light straight-
                                     run naphtha stabilizer off.
68513-18-8........................  Gases (petroleum), reformer effluent
                                     high-pressure flash drum off.
68513-19-9........................  Gases (petroleum), reformer effluent
                                     low-pressure flash drum off.
68513-62-2........................  Disulfides, C5-12-alkyl.
68513-63-3........................  Distillates (petroleum), catalytic
                                     reformed straight-run naphtha
                                     overheads.
68513-65-5........................  Butane, branched and linear.
68513-66-6........................  Residues (petroleum), alkylation
                                     splitter, C4-rich.
68513-67-7........................  Residues (petroleum), cyclooctadiene
                                     bottoms.
68513-68-8........................  Residues (petroleum), deethanizer
                                     tower.
68513-69-9........................  Residues (petroleum), steam-cracked
                                     light.
68513-74-6........................  Waste gases, ethylene oxide absorber-
                                     reactor.
68514-15-8........................  Gasoline, vapor-recovery.
68514-29-4........................  Hydrocarbons, amylene feed
                                     debutanizer overheads non-
                                     extractable raffinates.
68514-31-8........................  Hydrocarbons, C1-4.
68514-32-9........................  Hydrocarbons, C10 and C12, olefin-
                                     rich.
68514-33-0........................  Hydrocarbons, C12 and C14, olefin-
                                     rich.
68514-34-1........................  Hydrocarbons, C9-14, ethylene-manuf.-
                                     by-product.
68514-35-2........................  Hydrocarbons, C14-30, olefin-rich.
68514-36-3........................  Hydrocarbons, C1-4, sweetened.
68514-37-4........................  Hydrocarbons, C4-5-unsatd..

[[Page 46]]

 
68514-38-5........................  Hydrocarbons, C4-10-unsatd..
68514-39-6........................  Naphtha (petroleum), light steam-
                                     cracked, isoprene-rich.
68514-79-4........................  Petroleum products, hydrofiner-
                                     powerformer reformates.
68515-25-3........................  Benzene, C1-9-alkyl derivs.
68515-26-4........................  Benzene, di-C12-14-alkyl derivs.
68515-27-5........................  Benzene, di-C10-14-alkyl derivs.,
                                     fractionation overheads, heavy
                                     ends.
68515-28-6........................  Benzene, di-C10-14-alkyl derivs.,
                                     fractionation overheads, light
                                     ends.
68515-29-7........................  Benzene, di-C10-14-alkyl derivs.,
                                     fractionation overheads, middle
                                     cut.
68515-30-0........................  Benzene, mono-C20-48-alkyl derivs.
68515-32-2........................  Benzene, mono-C12-14-alkyl derivs.,
                                     fractionation bottoms.
68515-33-3........................  Benzene, mono-C10-12-alkyl derivs.,
                                     fractionation bottoms, heavy ends.
68515-34-4........................  Benzene, mono-C12-14-alkyl derivs.,
                                     fractionation bottoms, heavy ends.
68515-35-5........................  Benzene, mono-C10-12-alkyl derivs.,
                                     fractionation bottoms, light ends.
68515-36-6........................  Benzene, mono-C12-14-alkyl derivs.,
                                     fractionation bottoms, light ends.
68516-20-1........................  Naphtha (petroleum), steam-cracked
                                     middle arom.
68526-52-3........................  Alkenes, C6.
68526-53-4........................  Alkenes, C6-8, C7-rich.
68526-54-5........................  Alkenes, C7-9, C8-rich.
68526-55-6........................  Alkenes, C8-10, C9-rich.
68526-56-7........................  Alkenes, C9-11, C10-rich.
68526-57-8........................  Alkenes, C10-12, C11-rich.
68526-58-9........................  Alkenes, C11-13, C12-rich.
68526-77-2........................  Aromatic hydrocarbons, ethane
                                     cracking scrubber effluent and
                                     flare drum.
68526-99-8........................  Alkenes, C6-9 .alpha.-.
68527-00-4........................  Alkenes, C8-9 .alpha.-.
68527-11-7........................  Alkenes, C5.
68527-13-9........................  Gases (petroleum), acid,
                                     ethanolamine scrubber.
68527-14-0........................  Gases (petroleum), methane-rich off.
68527-15-1........................  Gases (petroleum), oil refinery gas
                                     distn. off.
68527-16-2........................  Hydrocarbons, C1-3.
68527-18-4........................  Gas oils (petroleum), steam-cracked.
68527-19-5........................  Hydrocarbons, C1-4, debutanizer
                                     fraction.
68527-21-9........................  Naphtha (petroleum), clay-treated
                                     full-range straight-run.
68527-22-0........................  Naphtha (petroleum), clay-treated
                                     light straight-run.
68527-23-1........................  Naphtha (petroleum), light steam-
                                     cracked arom.
68527-26-4........................  Naphtha (petroleum), light steam-
                                     cracked, debenzenized.
68527-27-5........................  Naphtha (petroleum), full-range
                                     alkylate, butane-contg.
68553-00-4........................  Fuel oil, no. 6.
68553-14-0........................  Hydrocarbons, C8-11.
68602-79-9........................  Distillates (petroleum), benzene
                                     unit hydrotreater dipentanizer
                                     overheads.
68602-81-3........................  Distillates, hydrocarbon resin
                                     prodn. higher boiling.
68602-82-4........................  Gases (petroleum), benzene unit
                                     hydrotreater depentenizer
                                     overheads.
68602-83-5........................  Gases (petroleum), C1-5, wet.
68602-84-6........................  Gases (petroleum), secondary
                                     absorber off, fluidized catalytic
                                     cracker overheads fractionater.
68602-96-0........................  Distillates (petroleum), oxidized
                                     light, strong acid components,
                                     compds. with diethanolamine.
68602-97-1........................  Distillates (petroleum), oxidized
                                     light, strong acid components,
                                     sodium salts.
68602-98-2........................  Distillates (petroleum), oxidized
                                     light, strong acid components.
68602-99-3........................  Distillates (petroleum), oxidized
                                     light, strong acid-free.
68603-00-9........................  Distillates (petroleum), thermal
                                     cracked naphtha and gas oil.
68603-01-0........................  Distillates (petroleum), thermal
                                     cracked naphtha and gas oil, C5-
                                     dimer-contg.
68603-02-1........................  Distillates (petroleum), thermal
                                     cracked naphtha and gas oil,
                                     dimerized.
68603-03-2........................  Distillates (petroleum), thermal
                                     cracked naphtha and gas oil,
                                     extractive.
68603-08-7........................  Naphtha (petroleum), arom.- contg.
68603-09-8........................  Hydrocarbon waxes (petroleum),
                                     oxidized, calcium salts.
68603-10-1........................  Hydrocarbon waxes (petroleum),
                                     oxidized, Me esters, barium salts.
68603-11-2........................  Hydrocarbon waxes (petroleum),
                                     oxidized, Me esters, calcium salts.
68603-12-3........................  Hydrocarbon waxes (petroleum),
                                     oxidized, Me esters, sodium salts.
68603-13-4........................  Petrolatum (petroleum), oxidized,
                                     ester with sorbitol.
68603-14-5........................  Residual oils (petroleum), oxidized,
                                     calcium salts.
68603-31-6........................  Alkenes, C10, tert-amylene
                                     concentrator by-product.
68603-32-7........................  Alkenes, C15-20 .alpha.-,
                                     isomerized.
68606-09-7........................  Fuel gases, expander off.
68606-10-0........................  Gasoline, pyrolysis, debutanizer
                                     bottoms.
68606-11-1........................  Gasoline, straight-run, topping-
                                     plant.
68606-24-6........................  Hydrocarbons, C4, butene
                                     concentrator by-product.
68606-25-7........................  Hydrocarbons, C2-4.
68606-26-8........................  Hydrocarbons, C3.
68606-27-9........................  Gases (petroleum), alkylation feed.
68606-28-0........................  Hydrocarbons, C5 and C10-aliph. and
                                     C6-8-arom.
68606-31-5........................  Hydrocarbons, C3-5, butadiene
                                     purification (purifn.) by-product.
68606-34-8........................  Gases (petroleum), depropanizer
                                     bottoms fractionation off.

[[Page 47]]

 
68606-36-0........................  Hydrocarbons, C5-unsatd. rich,
                                     isoprene purifn. by-product.
68607-11-4........................  Petroleum products, refinery gases.
68607-30-7........................  Residues (petroleum), topping plant,
                                     low-sulfur.
68608-56-0........................  Waste gases, from carbon black
                                     manuf.
68647-60-9........................  Hydrocarbons, C<ls-thn-eq>4.
68647-61-0........................  Hydrocarbons, C4-5, tert-amylene
                                     concentrator by-product.
68647-62-1........................  Hydrocarbons, C4-5, butene
                                     concentrator by-product, sour.
68650-36-2........................  Aromatic hydrocarbons, C8, o-xylene-
                                     lean.
68650-37-3........................  Paraffin waxes (petroleum),
                                     oxidized, sodium salts.
68782-97-8........................  Distillates (petroleum), hydrofined
                                     lubricating-oil.
68782-98-9........................  Extracts (petroleum), clarified oil
                                     solvent, condensed-ring-arom.-
                                     contg.
68782-99-0........................  Extracts (petroleum), heavy
                                     clarified oil solvent, condensed-
                                     ring-arom.-contg.
68783-00-6........................  Extracts (petroleum), heavy
                                     naphthenic distillate solvent,
                                     arom. conc.
68783-01-7........................  Extracts (petroleum), heavy
                                     naphthenic distillate solvent,
                                     paraffinic conc.
68783-02-8........................  Extracts (petroleum), intermediate
                                     clarified oil solvent, condensed-
                                     ring-arom.-contg.
68783-04-0........................  Extracts (petroleum), solvent-
                                     refined heavy paraffinic distillate
                                     solvent.
68783-05-1........................  Gases (petroleum), ammonia-hydrogen
                                     sulfide, water-satd.
68783-06-2........................  Gases (petroleum), hydrocracking low-
                                     pressure separator.
68783-07-3........................  Gases (petroleum), refinery blend.
68783-08-4........................  Gas oils (petroleum), heavy
                                     atmospheric.
68783-09-5........................  Naphtha (petroleum), catalytic
                                     cracked light distd.
68783-12-0........................  Naphtha (petroleum), unsweetened.
68783-13-1........................  Residues (petroleum), coker
                                     scrubber, condensed-ring-arom.-
                                     contg.
68783-15-3........................  Alkenes, C6-7 .alpha.-.
68783-61-9........................  Fuel gases, refinery, sweetened.
68783-62-0........................  Fuel gases, refinery, unsweetened.
68783-64-2........................  Gases (petroleum), catalytic
                                     cracking.
68783-65-3........................  Gases (petroleum), C2-4, sweetened.
68783-66-4........................  Naphtha (petroleum), light,
                                     sweetened.
68814-47-1........................  Waste gases, refinery vent.
68814-67-5........................  Gases (petroleum), refinery.
68814-87-9........................  Distillates (petroleum), full-range
                                     straight-run middle.
68814-89-1........................  Extracts (petroleum), heavy
                                     paraffinic distillates, solvent-
                                     deasphalted.
68814-90-4........................  Gases (petroleum), platformer
                                     products separator off.
68814-91-5........................  Alkenes, C5-9 .alpha.-.
68855-57-2........................  Alkenes, C6-12 .alpha.-.
68855-58-3........................  Alkenes, C10-16 .alpha.-.
68855-59-4........................  Alkenes, C14-18 .alpha.-.
68855-60-7........................  Alkenes, C14-20 .alpha.-.
68911-58-0........................  Gases (petroleum), hydrotreated sour
                                     kerosine depentanizer stabilizer
                                     off.
68911-59-1........................  Gases (petroleum), hydrotreated sour
                                     kerosine flash drum.
68915-96-8........................  Distillates (petroleum), heavy
                                     straight-run.
68915-97-9........................  Gas oils (petroleum), straight-run,
                                     high-boiling.
68918-69-4........................  Petrolatum (petroleum), oxidized,
                                     zinc salt.
68918-73-0........................  Residues (petroleum), clay-treating
                                     filter wash.
68918-93-4........................  Paraffin waxes and Hydrocarbon
                                     waxes, oxidized, alkali metal
                                     salts.
68918-98-9........................  Fuel gases, refinery, hydrogen
                                     sulfide-free.
68918-99-0........................  Gases (petroleum), crude oil
                                     fractionation off.
68919-00-6........................  Gases (petroleum), dehexanizer off.
68919-01-7........................  Gases (petroleum), distillate
                                     unifiner desulfurization stripper
                                     off.
68919-02-8........................  Gases (petroleum), fluidized
                                     catalytic cracker fractionation
                                     off.
68919-03-9........................  Gases (petroleum), fluidized
                                     catalytic cracker scrubbing
                                     secondary absorber off.
68919-04-0........................  Gases (petroleum), heavy distillate
                                     hydrotreater desulfurization
                                     stripper off.
68919-05-1........................  Gases (petroleum), light straight
                                     run gasoline fractionation
                                     stabilizer off.
68919-06-2........................  Gases (petroleum), naphtha unifiner
                                     desulfurization stripper off.
68919-07-3........................  Gases (petroleum), platformer
                                     stabilizer off, light ends
                                     fractionation.
68919-08-4........................  Gases (petroleum), preflash tower
                                     off, crude distn.
68919-09-5........................  Gases (petroleum), straight-run
                                     naphtha catalytic reforming off.
68919-10-8........................  Gases (petroleum), straight-run
                                     stabilizer off.
68919-11-9........................  Gases (petroleum), tar stripper off.
68919-12-0........................  Gases (petroleum), unifiner stripper
                                     off.
68919-15-3........................  Hydrocarbons, C6-12, benzene-
                                     recovery.
68919-16-4........................  Hydrocarbons, catalytic alkylation,
                                     by-products, C3-6.
68919-17-5........................  Hydrocarbons, C12-20, catalytic
                                     alkylation by-products.
68919-19-7........................  Gases (petroleum), fluidized
                                     catalytic cracker splitter
                                     residues.
68919-20-0........................  Gases (petroleum), fluidized
                                     catalytic cracker splitter
                                     overheads.
68919-37-9........................  Naphtha (petroleum), full-range
                                     reformed.
68920-06-9........................  Hydrocarbons, C7-9.
68920-07-0........................  Hydrocarbons, C<10-linear.
68920-64-9........................  Disulfides, di-C1-2-alkyl.
68921-07-3........................  Distillates (petroleum),
                                     hydrotreated light catalytic
                                     cracked.

[[Page 48]]

 
68921-08-4........................  Distillates (petroleum), light
                                     straight-run gasoline fractionation
                                     stabilizer overheads.
68921-09-5........................  Distillates (petroleum), naphtha
                                     unifiner stripper.
68921-67-5........................  Hydrocarbons, ethylene-manuf.-by-
                                     product distn. residues.
68952-76-1........................  Gases (petroleum), catalytic cracked
                                     naphtha debutanizer.
68952-77-2........................  Tail gas (petroleum), catalytic
                                     cracked distillate and naphtha
                                     stabilizer.
68952-78-3........................  Tail gas (petroleum), catalytic
                                     hydrodesulfurized distillate
                                     fractionation stabilizer, hydrogen
                                     sulfide-free.
68952-79-4........................  Tail gas (petroleum), catalytic
                                     hydrodesulfurized naphtha
                                     separator.
68952-80-7........................  Tail gas (petroleum), straight-run
                                     naphtha hydrodesulfurizer.
68952-81-8........................  Tail gas (petroleum), thermal-
                                     cracked distillate, gas oil and
                                     naphtha absorber.
68952-82-9........................  Tail gas (petroleum), thermal
                                     cracked hydrocarbon fractionation
                                     stabilizer, petroleum coking.
68953-80-0........................  Benzene, mixed with toluene,
                                     dealkylation product.
68955-27-1........................  Distillates (petroleum), petroleum
                                     residues vacuum.
68955-28-2........................  Gases (petroleum), light steam-
                                     cracked, butadiene conc.
68955-31-7........................  Gases (petroleum), butadiene
                                     process, inorg.
68955-32-8........................  Natural gas, substitute, steam-
                                     reformed desulfurized naphtha.
68955-33-9........................  Gases (petroleum), sponge absorber
                                     off, fluidized catalytic cracker
                                     and gas oil desulfurizer overhead
                                     fractionation.
68955-34-0........................  Gases (petroleum), straight-run
                                     naphtha catalytic reformer
                                     stabilizer overhead.
68955-35-1........................  Naphtha (petroleum), catalytic
                                     reformed.
68955-36-2........................  Residues (petroleum), steam-cracked,
                                     resinous.
68955-76-0........................  Aromatic hydrocarbons, C9-16,
                                     biphenyl deriv.-rich.
68955-96-4........................  Disulfides, dialkyl and di-Ph,
                                     naphtha sweetening.
68956-47-8........................  Fuel oil, isoprene reject
                                     absorption.
68956-48-9........................  Fuel oil, residual, wastewater
                                     skimmings.
68956-52-5........................  Hydrocarbons, C4-8.
68956-54-7........................  Hydrocarbons, C4-unsatd.
68956-55-8........................  Hydrocarbons, C5-unsatd.
68956-70-7........................  Petroleum products, C5-12,
                                     reclaimed, wastewater treatment.
68988-79-4........................  Benzene, C10-12-alkyl derivs.,
                                     distn. residues.
68988-99-8........................  Phenols, sodium salts, mixed with
                                     sulfur compounds, gasoline alk.
                                     scrubber residues.
68989-88-8........................  Gases (petroleum), crude distn. and
                                     catalytic cracking.
68990-35-2........................  Distillates (petroleum), arom.,
                                     hydrotreated, dicyclopentadiene-
                                     rich.
68991-49-1........................  Alkanes, C10-13, arom.-free
                                     desulfurized.
68991-50-4........................  Alkanes, C14-17, arom.-free
                                     desulfurized.
68991-51-5........................  Alkanes, C10-13, desulfurized.
68991-52-6........................  Alkenes, C10-16.
69013-21-4........................  Fuel oil, pyrolysis.
69029-75-0........................  Oils, reclaimed.
69430-33-7........................  Hydrocarbons, C6-30.
70024-88-3........................  Ethene, thermal cracking products.
70528-71-1........................  Distillates (petroleum), heavy
                                     distillate solvent ext. heart-cut.
70528-72-2........................  Distillates (petroleum), heavy
                                     distillate solvent ext. vacuum
                                     overheads.
70528-73-3........................  Residues (petroleum), heavy
                                     distillate solvent ext. vacuum.
70592-76-6........................  Distillates (petroleum),
                                     intermediate vacuum.
70592-77-7........................  Distillates (petroleum), light
                                     vacuum.
70592-78-8........................  Distillates (petroleum), vacuum.
70592-79-9........................  Residues (petroleum), atm. tower,
                                     light.
70693-00-4........................  Hydrocarbon waxes (petroleum),
                                     oxidized, sodium salts.
70693-06-0........................  Aromatic hydrocarbons, C9-11.
70913-85-8........................  Residues (petroleum), solvent-extd.
                                     vacuum distilled atm. residuum.
70913-86-9........................  Alkanes, C18-70.
70955-08-7........................  Alkanes, C4-6.
70955-09-8........................  Alkenes, C13-14 .alpha.-.
70955-10-1........................  Alkenes, C15-18 .alpha.-.
70955-17-8........................  Aromatic hydrocarbons, C12-20.
71243-66-8........................  Hydrocarbon waxes (petroleum), clay-
                                     treated, microcryst., oxidized,
                                     potassium salts.
71302-82-4........................  Hydrocarbons, C5-8, houdry butadiene
                                     manuf. by-product.
71329-37-8........................  Residues (petroleum), catalytic
                                     cracking depropanizer, C4-rich.
71808-30-5........................  Tail gas (petroleum), thermal
                                     cracking absorber.
72230-71-8........................  Distillates (petroleum), cracked
                                     steam-cracked, C5-17 fraction.
72623-83-7........................  Lubricating oils (petroleum), C<ls-
                                     thn-eq>25, hydrotreated bright
                                     stock-based.
72623-84-8........................  Lubricating oils (petroleum), C15-
                                     30, hydrotreated neutral oil-based,
                                     contg. solvent deasphalted residual
                                     oil.
72623-85-9........................  Lubricating oils (petroleum), C20-
                                     50, hydrotreated neutral oil-based,
                                     high-viscosity.
72623-86-0........................  Lubricating oils (petroleum), C15-
                                     30, hydrotreated neutral oil-based.
72623-87-1........................  Lubricating oils (petroleum), C20-
                                     50, hydrotreated neutral oil-based.
73138-65-5........................  Hydrocarbon waxes (petroleum),
                                     oxidized, magnesium salts.
92045-43-7........................  Lubricating oils (petroleum),
                                     hydrocracked non-arom. solvent
                                     deparaffined.
92045-58-4........................  Naphtha (petroleum), isomerization,
                                     C6-fraction.
92062-09-4........................  Slack wax (petroleum), hydrotreated.

[[Page 49]]

 
93762-80-2........................  Alkenes, C15-18.
98859-55-3........................  Distillates (petroleum), oxidized
                                     heavy, compds. with diethanolamine.
98859-56-4........................  Distillates (petroleum), oxidized
                                     heavy, sodium salts.
101316-73-8.......................  Lubricating oils (petroleum), used,
                                     non-catalytically refined.
164907-78-2.......................  Extracts (petroleum), asphaltene-low
                                     vacuum residue solvent.
164907-79-3.......................  Residues (petroleum), vacuum,
                                     asphaltene-low.
178603-63-9.......................  Gas oils (petroleum), vacuum,
                                     hydrocracked, hydroisomerized,
                                     hydrogenated, C10-25.
178603-64-0.......................  Gas oils (petroleum), vacuum,
                                     hydrocracked, hydroisomerized,
                                     hydrogenated, C15-30, branched and
                                     cyclic.
178603-65-1.......................  Gas oils (petroleum), vacuum,
                                     hydrocracked, hydroisomerized,
                                     hydrogenated, C20-40, branched and
                                     cyclic.
178603-66-2.......................  Gas oils (petroleum), vacuum,
                                     hydrocracked, hydroisomerized,
                                     hydrogenated, C25-55, branched and
                                     cyclic.
212210-93-0.......................  Solvent naphtha (petroleum), heavy
                                     arom., distn. residues.
221120-39-4.......................  Distillates (petroleum), cracked
                                     steam-cracked, C5-12 fraction.
445411-73-4.......................  Gas oils (petroleum), vacuum,
                                     hydrocracked, hydroisomerized,
                                     hydrogenated, C10-25, branched and
                                     cyclic.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (2) Specific exempted chemical substances--(i) Exemption. EPA has 
determined that, at this time, the information in Sec. 711.15(b)(4) 
associated with the chemical substances listed in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) 
of this section is of low current interest.
    (ii) Considerations. In making its determination of whether this 
partial exemption should apply to a particular chemical substance, EPA 
will consider the totality of information available for the chemical 
substance in question, including but not limited to, one or more of the 
following considerations:
    (A) Whether the chemical substance qualifies or has qualified in 
past IUR or CDR collections for the reporting of the information 
described in Sec. 711.15(b)(4).
    (B) The chemical substance's chemical and physical properties or 
potential for persistence, bioaccumulation, health effects, or 
environmental effects (considered independently or together).
    (C) The information needs of EPA, other Federal agencies, Tribes, 
States, and local governments, as well as members of the public.
    (D) The availability of other complementary risk screening 
information.
    (E) The availability of comparable processing and use information.
    (F) Whether the potential risks of the chemical substance are 
adequately managed.
    (iii) Amendments. EPA may amend the chemical substance list in 
paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section on its own initiative or in 
response to a request from the public based on EPA's determination of 
whether the information in Sec. 711.15(b)(4) is of low interest.
    (A) Any person may request that EPA amend the chemical substance 
list in Table 2 in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section. Your request 
must be in writing and must be submitted to the address provided in 40 
CFR 700.17(a). Please label your request as follows: Attention: TSCA 
Chemical Data Reporting--Partial Exemption Request. Requests must 
identify the chemical substance in question, as well as its CASRN or 
other chemical identification number as identified in Sec. 
711.15(b)(3)(i), and must contain a written rationale for the request 
that provides sufficient specific information, addressing the 
considerations listed in Sec. 711.6(b)(2)(ii), including cites and 
relevant documents, to demonstrate to EPA that the collection of the 
information in Sec. 711.15(b)(4) for the chemical substance in question 
either is or is not of low current interest. If a request related to a 
particular chemical substance is resubmitted, any subsequent request 
must clearly identify new information contained in the request. EPA may 
request other information that it believes necessary to evaluate the 
request. EPA will issue a written response to each request within 120 
days of receipt of the request, and will maintain copies of these 
responses in a docket that will be established for each reporting cycle.

[[Page 50]]

    (B) As needed, the Agency will initiate rulemaking to make revisions 
to Table 2 in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section.
    (C) To assist EPA in reaching a decision regarding a particular 
request prior to a given principal reporting year, requests must be 
submitted to EPA no later than 12 months prior to the start of the next 
principal reporting year.
    (iv) List of chemical substances. EPA has designated the chemical 
substances listed in Table 2 of this paragraph by CASRN, as partially 
exempt from reporting under the CDR.

         Table 2--CASRN of Partially Exempt Chemical Substances
------------------------------------------------------------------------
               CASRN                              Chemical
------------------------------------------------------------------------
50-70-4...........................  D-glucitol.
50-81-7...........................  L-ascorbic acid.
50-99-7...........................  D-glucose.
56-81-5...........................  1,2,3-Propanetriol.
56-87-1...........................  L-lysine.
57-48-7...........................  D-fructose.
57-50-1...........................  .alpha.-D-Glucopyranoside, .beta.-D-
                                     fructofuranosyl.
58-95-7...........................  2H-1-Benzopyran-6-ol, 3,4-dihydro-
                                     2,5,7,8-tetramethyl-2-[(4R,8R)-
                                     4,8,12- trimethyltridecyl]-,
                                     acetate, (2R)-.
59-02-9...........................  2H-1-Benzopyran-6-ol, 3,4-dihydro-
                                     2,5,7,8-tetramethyl-2-[(4R,8R)-
                                     4,8,12- trimethyltridecyl]-, (2R)-.
59-51-8...........................  Methionine.
68-04-2...........................  1,2,3-Propanetricarboxylic acid, 2-
                                     hydroxy-, sodium salt (1:3).
69-65-8...........................  D-mannitol.
77-92-9...........................  1,2,3-Propanetricarboxylic acid, 2-
                                     hydroxy-.
87-79-6...........................  L-sorbose.
87-99-0...........................  Xylitol.
96-10-6...........................  Aluminum, chlorodiethyl-.
97-93-8...........................  Aluminum, triethyl-.
100-99-2..........................  Aluminum, tris(2-methylpropyl)-.
123-94-4..........................  Octadecanoic acid, 2,3-
                                     dihydroxypropyl ester.
124-38-9..........................  Carbon dioxide.
137-08-6..........................  .beta.-Alanine, N-[(2R)-2,4-
                                     dihydroxy-3,3-dimethyl-1-oxobutyl]-
                                     , calcium alt (2:1).
142-47-2..........................  L-glutamic acid, monosodium salt.
150-30-1..........................  Phenylalanine.
504-63-2..........................  1,3-Propanediol.
563-43-9..........................  Aluminum, dichloroethyl-.
866-84-2..........................  1,2,3-Propanetricarboxylic acid, 2-
                                     hydroxy-, potassium salt (1:3).
1070-00-4.........................  Aluminum, trioctyl-.
1116-70-7.........................  Aluminum, tributyl-.
1116-73-0.........................  Aluminum, trihexyl-.
1191-15-7.........................  Aluminum, hydrobis(2-methylpropyl)-.
1317-65-3.........................  Limestone.
1333-74-0.........................  Hydrogen.
1592-23-0.........................  Octadecanoic acid, calcium salt.
7440-37-1.........................  Argon.
7440-44-0.........................  Carbon.
7727-37-9.........................  Nitrogen.
7782-42-5.........................  Graphite.
7782-44-7.........................  Oxygen.
8001-21-6.........................  Sunflower oil.
8001-22-7.........................  Soybean oil.
8001-23-8.........................  Safflower oil.
8001-26-1.........................  Linseed oil.
8001-29-4.........................  Cottonseed oil.
8001-30-7.........................  Corn oil.
8001-31-8.........................  Coconut oil.
8001-78-3.........................  Castor oil, hydrogenated.
8001-79-4.........................  Castor oil.
8002-03-7.........................  Peanut oil.
8002-13-9.........................  Rape oil.
8002-43-5.........................  Lecithins.
8002-75-3.........................  Palm oil.
8006-54-0.........................  Lanolin.
8013-07-8.........................  Soybean oil, epoxidized.
8016-28-2.........................  Lard, oil.
8016-70-4.........................  Soybean oil, hydrogenated.
8021-99-6.........................  Charcoal, bone.
8023-79-8.........................  Oils, palm kernel.
8029-43-4.........................  Syrups, hydrolyzed starch.
11103-57-4........................  Vitamin A.

[[Page 51]]

 
12075-68-2........................  Aluminum, di-.mu.-
                                     chlorochlorotriethyldi-.
12542-85-7........................  Aluminum, trichlorotrimethyldi-.
16291-96-6........................  Charcoal.
26836-47-5........................  D-glucitol, monooctadecanoate.
61788-61-2........................  Fatty acids, tallow, methyl esters.
61789-44-4........................  Fatty acids, castor-oil.
61789-97-7........................  Tallow.
61789-99-9........................  Lard.
64147-40-6........................  Castor oil, dehydrated.
64755-01-7........................  Fatty acids, tallow, calcium salts.
65996-63-6........................  Starch, acid-hydrolyzed.
65996-64-7........................  Starch, enzyme-hydrolyzed.
66071-94-1........................  Corn, steep liquor.
67701-01-3........................  Fatty acids, C12-18.
67762-26-9........................  Fatty acids, C14-18 and C16-18
                                     unsaturated, methyl esters.
67762-38-3........................  Fatty acids, C16-18 and C-18
                                     unsaturated, methyl esters.
67784-80-9........................  Soybean oil, methyl esters.
68002-85-7........................  Fatty acids, C14-22 and C16-22-
                                     unsatd.
68131-37-3........................  Syrups, hydrolyzed starch,
                                     dehydrated.
68188-81-8........................  Grease, poultry.
68308-36-1........................  Soybean meal.
68308-54-3........................  Glycerides, tallow mono-, di- and
                                     tri-, hydrogenated.
68334-00-9........................  Cottonseed oil, hydrogenated.
68334-28-1........................  Fats and glyceridic oils, vegetable,
                                     hydrogenated.
68409-76-7........................  Bone meal, steamed.
68424-45-3........................  Fatty acids, linseed-oil.
68424-61-3........................  Glycerides, C16-18 and C18-unsatd.
                                     mono- and di-.
68425-17-2........................  Syrups, hydrolyzed starch,
                                     hydrogenated
68439-86-1........................  Bone, ash.
68442-69-3........................  Benzene, mono-C10-14-alkyl derivs.
68476-78-8........................  Molasses.
68514-27-2........................  Grease, catch basin.
68514-74-9........................  Palm oil, hydrogenated.
68525-87-1........................  Corn oil, hydrogenated.
68648-87-3........................  Benzene, C10-16-alkyl derivs.
68918-42-3........................  Soaps, stocks, soya.
68952-94-3........................  Soaps, stocks, vegetable-oil.
68956-68-3........................  Fats and glyceridic oils, vegetable.
68989-98-0........................  Fats and glyceridic oils, vegetable,
                                     residues.
70131-50-9........................  Bentonite, acid-leached.
73138-67-7........................  Lard, hydrogenated.
120962-03-0.......................  Canola oil.
129813-58-7.......................  Benzene, mono-C10-13-alkyl derivs.
129813-59-8.......................  Benzene, mono-C12-14-alkyl derivs.
129813-60-1.......................  Benzene, mono-C14-16-alkyl derivs.
129828-16-6.......................  Fatty acids, canola oil, methyl
                                     esters.
515152-40-6.......................  Fatty acids, corn oil, methyl
                                     esters.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


[76 FR 54933, Sept. 6, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 35098, June 19, 2014; 
79 FR 66658, Nov. 10, 2014; 81 FR 17395, Mar. 29, 2016]


<R05>
Sec. 711.8  Persons who must report.

    Except as provided in Sec. Sec. 711.9 and 711.10, the following 
persons are subject to the requirements of this part. Persons must 
determine whether they must report under this section for each chemical 
substance that they manufacture (including import) at an individual 
site.
    (a) Persons subject to recurring reporting--(1) For the 2012 
submission period, any person who manufactured (including imported) for 
commercial purposes 25,000 lb (11,340 kilogram (kg)) or more of a 
chemical substance described in Sec. 711.5 at any single site owned or 
controlled by that person during the principal reporting year (i.e., 
calendar year 2011) is subject to reporting.
    (2) For the submission periods subsequent to the 2012 submission 
period, any person who manufactured (including imported) for commercial 
purposes 25,000 lb (11,340 kg) or more of a chemical substance described 
in Sec. 711.5 at any single site owned or controlled by that person 
during any calendar year

[[Page 52]]

since the last principal reporting year (e.g., for the 2016 submission 
period, consider calendar years 2012, 2013, 2014, and 2015, given that 
2011 was the last principal reporting year).
    (b) Exceptions. For the 2016 submission period and subsequent 
submission periods, any person who manufactured (including imported) for 
commercial purposes any chemical substance that is the subject of a rule 
proposed or promulgated under TSCA section 5(a)(2), 5(b)(4), or 6, or is 
the subject of an order in effect under TSCA section 5(e) or 5(f), or is 
the subject of relief that has been granted under a civil action under 
TSCA section 5 or 7 is subject to reporting as described in Sec. 
711.8(a), except that the applicable production volume threshold is 
2,500 lb (1,134 kg).


<R05>
Sec. 711.9  Persons not subject to this part.

    A person described in Sec. 711.8 is not subject to the requirements 
of this part if that person qualifies as a small manufacturer as that 
term is defined in 40 CFR 704.3. Notwithstanding this exclusion, a 
person who qualifies as a small manufacturer is subject to this part 
with respect to any chemical substance that is the subject of a rule 
proposed or promulgated under TSCA section 4, 5(b)(4), or 6, or is the 
subject of an order in effect under TSCA section 5(e), or is the subject 
of relief that has been granted under a civil action under TSCA section 
5 or 7.


<R05>
Sec. 711.10  Activities for which reporting is not required.

    A person described in Sec. 711.8 is not subject to the requirements 
of this part with respect to any chemical substance described in Sec. 
711.5 that the person solely manufactured or imported under the 
following circumstances:
    (a) The person manufactured or imported the chemical substance 
described in Sec. 711.5 solely in small quantities for research and 
development.
    (b) The person imported the chemical substance described in Sec. 
711.5 as part of an article.
    (c) The person manufactured the chemical substance described in 
Sec. 711.5 in a manner described in 40 CFR 720.30(g) or (h).


<R05>
Sec. 711.15  Reporting information to EPA.

    For the 2012 submission period, any person who must report under 
this part, as described in Sec. 711.8, must submit the information 
described in this section for each chemical substance described in Sec. 
711.5 that the person manufactured (including imported) for commercial 
purposes in an amount of 25,000 lb (11,340 kg) or more at any one site 
during the principal reporting year (i.e., calendar year 2011). For the 
submission periods subsequent to the 2012 submission period, any person 
who must report under this part, as described in Sec. 711.8, must 
submit the information described in this section for each chemical 
substance described in Sec. 711.5 that the person manufactured 
(including imported) for commercial purposes in an amount of 25,000 lb 
(11,340 kg) or more (or in an amount of 2,500 lb (1,134 kg) or more for 
chemical substances subject to the rules, orders, or actions described 
in Sec. 711.8(b)) at any one site during any calendar year since the 
last principal reporting year (e.g., for the 2016 submission period, 
consider calendar years 2012, 2013, 2014, and 2015, because 2011 was the 
last principal reporting year). The principal reporting year for each 
submission period is the previous calendar year (e.g., the principal 
reporting year for the 2016 submission period is calendar year 2015). 
For all submission periods, a separate report must be submitted for each 
chemical substance at each site for which the submitter is required to 
report. A submitter of information under this part must report 
information as described in this section to the extent that such 
information is known to or reasonably ascertainable by that person.
    (a) Reporting information to EPA. Any person who reports information 
to EPA must do so using the e-CDRweb reporting tool provided by EPA at 
the address set forth in Sec. 711.35. The submission must include all 
information described in paragraph (b) of this section. Persons must 
submit a separate Form U for each site for which the person is required 
to report. The e-CDRweb reporting tool is described in the instructions 
available from EPA at the Web site set forth in Sec. 711.35.

[[Page 53]]

    (b) Information to be reported. For the 2012 submission period, 
manufacturers (including importers) of a reportable chemical substance 
in an amount of 25,000 lb (11,340 kg) or more at a site during the 
principal reporting year (i.e., 2011) must report the information 
described in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of this section. For 
the 2012 submission period, manufacturers (including importers) of a 
reportable chemical substance in an amount of 100,000 lb (45,359 kg) or 
more at a site during the principal reporting year (i.e., 2011) must 
additionally report the information described in paragraph (b)(4) of 
this section. For submission periods subsequent to the 2012 submission 
period, the information described in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), 
and (b)(4) of this section must be reported for each chemical substance 
manufactured (including imported) in an amount of 25,000 lb (11,340 kg) 
or more (or in an amount of 2,500 lb (1,134 kg) or more for chemical 
substances subject to the rules, orders, or actions described in Sec. 
711.8(b)) at any one site during any calendar year since the last 
principal reporting year. The requirement to report information 
described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section is subject to exemption as 
described in Sec. 711.6.
    (1) A certification statement signed and dated by an authorized 
official of the submitter company. The authorized official must certify 
that the submitted information has been completed in compliance with the 
requirements of this part and that the confidentiality claims made on 
the Form U are true and correct. The certification must be signed and 
dated by the authorized official for the submitter company, and provide 
that person's name, official title, and e-mail address.
    (2) Company and plant site information. The following currently 
correct company and plant site information must be reported for each 
site at which a reportable chemical substance is manufactured (including 
imported) above the applicable production volume threshold, as described 
in this section (see Sec. 711.3 for the ``site'' for importers):
    (i) The U.S. parent company name, address, and Dun and Bradstreet D-
U-N-S [supreg] (D&B) number. A submitter under this part must obtain a 
D&B number for the U.S. parent company if none exists.
    (ii) The name of a person who will serve as technical contact for 
the submitter company, and who will be able to answer questions about 
the information submitted by the company to EPA, the contact person's 
full mailing address, telephone number, and e-mail address.
    (iii) The name and full street address of each site. A submitter 
under this part must include the appropriate D&B number for each plant 
site reported, and the county or parish (or other jurisdictional 
indicator) in which the plant site is located. A submitter under this 
part must obtain a D&B number for the site reported if none exists.
    (3) Chemical-specific information. The following chemical-specific 
information must be reported for each reportable chemical substance 
manufactured (including imported) above the applicable production volume 
threshold, as described in paragraph (b) of this section:
    (i) The specific, currently correct CA Index name as used to list 
the chemical substance on the TSCA Inventory and the correct 
corresponding CASRN for each reportable chemical substance at each site. 
A submitter under this part may use an EPA-designated TSCA Accession 
Number for a chemical substance in lieu of a CASRN when a CASRN is not 
known to or reasonably ascertainable by the submitter. Submitters who 
wish to report chemical substances listed on the confidential portion of 
the TSCA Inventory will need to report the chemical substance using a 
TSCA Accession Number.
    In addition to reporting the number itself, submitters must specify 
the type of number they are reporting by selecting from among the codes 
in Table 3 of this paragraph.

      Table 3--Codes To Specify Type of Chemical Identifying Number
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Code                              Number type
------------------------------------------------------------------------
A.........................................  TSCA Accession Number.
C.........................................  Chemical Abstracts Service
                                             Registry Number (CASRN).
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (A) If an importer submitting a report cannot provide the 
information specified in Sec. 711.15(b)(3)(i) because it is

[[Page 54]]

unknown to the importer and claimed as confidential by the supplier of 
the chemical substance or mixture, the importer must use e-CDRweb to ask 
the supplier to provide the correct chemical identity information 
directly to EPA in a joint submission. Such request must include 
instructions for submitting chemical identity information 
electronically, using e-CDRweb and CDX (see Sec. 711.35), and for 
clearly referencing the importer's submission. Contact information for 
the supplier, a trade name or other designation for the chemical 
substance or mixture, and a copy of the request to the supplier must be 
included with the importer's submission respecting the chemical 
substance.
    (B) If a manufacturer submitting a report cannot provide the 
information specified in Sec. 711.15(b)(3)(i) because the reportable 
chemical substance is manufactured using a reactant having a specific 
chemical identity that is unknown to the manufacturer and claimed as 
confidential by its supplier, the manufacturer must use e-CDRweb to ask 
the supplier of the confidential reactant to provide the correct 
chemical identity of the confidential reactant directly to EPA in a 
joint submission. Such request must include instructions for submitting 
chemical identity information electronically using e-CDRweb and CDX (see 
Sec. 711.35), and for clearly referencing the manufacturer's 
submission. Contact information for the supplier, a trade name or other 
designation for the chemical substance, and a copy of the request to the 
supplier must be included with the importer's submission respecting the 
chemical substance.
    (C) EPA will only accept joint submissions that are submitted 
electronically using e-CDRweb and CDX (see Sec. 711.35) and that 
clearly reference the primary submission to which they refer.
    (ii) For the principal reporting year only, a statement indicating, 
for each reportable chemical substance at each site, whether the 
chemical substance is manufactured in the United States, imported into 
the United States, or both manufactured in the United States and 
imported into the United States.
    (iii) For the principal reporting year, the total annual volume (in 
pounds) of each reportable chemical substance domestically manufactured 
or imported at each site. The total annual domestically manufactured 
volume (not including imported volume) and the total annual imported 
volume must be separately reported. These amounts must be reported to 
two significant figures of accuracy. In addition, for the 2012 
submission period only, the total annual volume (domestically 
manufactured plus imported volumes in pounds) of each reportable 
chemical substance at each site during calendar year 2010. In addition, 
for submission periods subsequent to the 2012 submission period, the 
total annual volume (domestically manufactured plus imported volumes in 
pounds) of each reportable chemical substance at each site for each 
complete calendar year since the last principal reporting year.
    (iv) For the principal reporting year only, the volume used on site 
and the volume directly exported of each reportable chemical substance 
domestically manufactured or imported at each site. These amounts must 
be reported to two significant figures of accuracy.
    (v) For the principal reporting year only, a designation indicating, 
for each imported reportable chemical substance at each site, whether 
the imported chemical substance is physically present at the reporting 
site.
    (vi) For the principal reporting year only, a designation 
indicating, for each reportable chemical substance at each site, whether 
the chemical substance is being recycled, remanufactured, reprocessed, 
reused, or otherwise used for a commercial purpose instead of being 
disposed of as a waste or included in a waste stream.
    (vii) For the principal reporting year only, the total number of 
workers reasonably likely to be exposed to each reportable chemical 
substance at each site. For each reportable chemical substance at each 
site, the submitter must select from among the ranges of workers listed 
in Table 4 of this paragraph and report the corresponding code (i.e., W1 
through W8):

[[Page 55]]



 Table 4--Codes for Reporting Number of Workers Reasonably Likely To Be
                                 Exposed
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Code                                 Range
------------------------------------------------------------------------
W1........................................  Fewer than 10 workers.
W2........................................  At least 10 but fewer than
                                             25 workers.
W3........................................  At least 25 but fewer than
                                             50 workers.
W4........................................  At least 50 but fewer than
                                             100 workers.
W5........................................  At least 100 but fewer than
                                             500 workers.
W6........................................  At least 500 but fewer than
                                             1,000 workers.
W7........................................  At least 1,000 but fewer
                                             than 10,000 workers.
W8........................................  At least 10,000 workers.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (viii) For the principal reporting year only, the maximum 
concentration, measured by percentage of weight, of each reportable 
chemical substance at the time it is sent off-site from each site. If 
the chemical substance is site-limited, you must report the maximum 
concentration, measured by percentage of weight of the reportable 
chemical substance at the time it is reacted on-site to produce a 
different chemical substance. This information must be reported 
regardless of the physical form(s) in which the chemical substance is 
sent off-site/reacted on-site. For each chemical substance at each site, 
select the maximum concentration of the chemical substance from among 
the ranges listed in Table 5 of this paragraph and report the 
corresponding code (i.e., M1 through M5):

Table 5--Codes for Reporting Maximum Concentration of Chemical Substance
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               Concentration range (%
                   Code                                weight)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
M1........................................  Less than 1% by weight.
M2........................................  At least 1 but less than 30%
                                             by weight.
M3........................................  At least 30 but less than
                                             60% by weight.
M4........................................  At least 60 but less than
                                             90% by weight.
M5........................................  At least 90% by weight.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (ix) For the principal reporting year only, the physical form(s) of 
the reportable chemical substance as it is sent off-site from each site. 
If the chemical substance is site-limited, you must report the physical 
form(s) of the reportable chemical substance at the time it is reacted 
on-site to produce a different chemical substance. For each chemical 
substance at each site, the submitter must report as many physical forms 
as applicable from among the physical forms listed in this unit:
    (A) Dry powder.
    (B) Pellets or large crystals.
    (C) Water- or solvent-wet solid.
    (D) Other solid.
    (E) Gas or vapor.
    (F) Liquid.
    (x) For the principal reporting year only, submitters must report 
the percentage, rounded off to the closest 10%, of total production 
volume of the reportable chemical substance, reported in response to 
paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, that is associated with each 
physical form reported under paragraph (b)(3)(ix) of this section.
    (4) Chemical-specific information related to processing and use. The 
following chemical-specific information must be reported for each 
reportable chemical substance manufactured (including imported) above 
the applicable production volume threshold, as described in this 
section. Persons subject to paragraph (b)(4) of this section must report 
the information described in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) and (b)(4)(ii) of this 
section for each reportable chemical substance at sites under their 
control and at sites that receive a reportable chemical substance from 
the submitter directly or indirectly (including through a broker/
distributor, from a customer of the submitter, etc.). Information 
reported in response to this paragraph must be reported for the 
principal reporting year only and only to the extent that it is known to 
or reasonably ascertainable by the submitter. Information required to be 
reported under this paragraph is limited to domestic (i.e., within the 
customs territory of the United States) processing and use activities. 
If information responsive to a given data requirement under this 
paragraph, including information in the form of an estimate, is not 
known or reasonably ascertainable, the submitter is not required to 
respond to the requirement.
    (i) Industrial processing and use information--(A) A designation 
indicating the type of industrial processing or use operation(s) at each 
site that receives a reportable chemical substance from the submitter 
site directly or indirectly (whether the recipient site(s) are 
controlled by the submitter site or not). For each chemical substance, 
report the letters which correspond to the appropriate processing or use 
operation(s) listed in Table 6 of this paragraph. A particular 
designation may

[[Page 56]]

need to be reported more than once, to the extent that a submitter 
reports more than one sector (under paragraph (b)(4)(i)(B) of this 
section) that applies to a given designation under this paragraph.

    Table 6--Codes for Reporting Type of Industrial Processing or Use
                                Operation
------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Designation                           Operation
------------------------------------------------------------------------
PC.....................................  Processing as a reactant.
PF.....................................  Processing--incorporation into
                                          formulation, mixture, or
                                          reaction product.
PA.....................................  Processing--incorporation into
                                          article.
PK.....................................  Processing--repackaging.
U......................................  Use--non-incorporative
                                          activities.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (B) A code indicating the sector(s) that best describe the 
industrial activities associated with each industrial processing or use 
operation reported under paragraph (b)(4)(i)(A) of this section. For 
each chemical substance, report the code that corresponds to the 
appropriate sector(s) listed in Table 7 of this paragraph. A particular 
sector code may need to be reported more than once, to the extent that a 
submitter reports more than one industrial function code (under 
paragraph (b)(4)(i)(C) of this section) that applies to a given sector 
code under this paragraph.

             Table 7--Codes for Reporting Industrial Sectors
------------------------------------------------------------------------
               Code                          Sector description
------------------------------------------------------------------------
IS1...............................  Agriculture, forestry, fishing, and
                                     hunting.
IS2...............................  Oil and gas drilling, extraction,
                                     and support activities.
IS3...............................  Mining (except oil and gas) and
                                     support activities.
IS4...............................  Utilities.
IS5...............................  Construction.
IS6...............................  Food, beverage, and tobacco product
                                     manufacturing.
IS7...............................  Textiles, apparel, and leather
                                     manufacturing.
IS8...............................  Wood product manufacturing.
IS9...............................  Paper manufacturing.
IS10..............................  Printing and related support
                                     activities.
IS11..............................  Petroleum refineries.
IS12..............................  Asphalt paving, roofing, and coating
                                     materials manufacturing.
IS13..............................  Petroleum lubricating oil and grease
                                     manufacturing.
IS14..............................  All other petroleum and coal
                                     products manufacturing.
IS15..............................  Petrochemical manufacturing.
IS16..............................  Industrial gas manufacturing.
IS17..............................  Synthetic dye and pigment
                                     manufacturing.
IS18..............................  Carbon black manufacturing.
IS19..............................  All other basic inorganic chemical
                                     manufacturing.
IS20..............................  Cyclic crude and intermediate
                                     manufacturing.
IS21..............................  All other basic organic chemical
                                     manufacturing.
IS22..............................  Plastics material and resin
                                     manufacturing.
IS23..............................  Synthetic rubber manufacturing.
IS24..............................  Organic fiber manufacturing.
IS25..............................  Pesticide, fertilizer, and other
                                     agricultural chemical
                                     manufacturing.
IS26..............................  Pharmaceutical and medicine
                                     manufacturing.
IS27..............................  Paint and coating manufacturing.
IS28..............................  Adhesive manufacturing.
IS29..............................  Soap, cleaning compound, and toilet
                                     preparation manufacturing.
IS30..............................  Printing ink manufacturing.
IS31..............................  Explosives manufacturing.
IS32..............................  Custom compounding of purchased
                                     resins.
IS33..............................  Photographic film, paper, plate, and
                                     chemical manufacturing.
IS34..............................  All other chemical product and
                                     preparation manufacturing.
IS35..............................  Plastics product manufacturing.
IS36..............................  Rubber product manufacturing.
IS37..............................  Non-metallic mineral product
                                     manufacturing (includes cement,
                                     clay, concrete, glass, gypsum,
                                     lime, and other non-metallic
                                     mineral product manufacturing).
IS38..............................  Primary metal manufacturing.
IS39..............................  Fabricated metal product
                                     manufacturing.
IS40..............................  Machinery manufacturing.
IS41..............................  Computer and electronic product
                                     manufacturing.
IS42..............................  Electrical equipment, appliance, and
                                     component manufacturing.
IS43..............................  Transportation equipment
                                     manufacturing.
IS44..............................  Furniture and related product
                                     manufacturing.
IS45..............................  Miscellaneous manufacturing.
IS46..............................  Wholesale and retail trade.
IS47..............................  Services.
IS48..............................  Other (requires additional
                                     information).
------------------------------------------------------------------------


[[Page 57]]

    (C) For each sector reported under paragraph (b)(4)(i)(B) of this 
section, code(s) from Table 8 of this paragraph must be selected to 
designate the industrial function category(ies) that best represents the 
specific manner in which the chemical substance is used. A particular 
industrial function category may need to be reported more than once, to 
the extent that a submitter reports more than one industrial processing 
or use operation/sector combination (under paragraphs (b)(4)(i)(A) and 
(b)(4)(i)(B) of this section) that applies to a given industrial 
function category under this paragraph. If more than 10 unique 
combinations of industrial processing or use operations/sector/
industrial function categories apply to a chemical substance, submitters 
need only report the 10 unique combinations for the chemical substance 
that cumulatively represent the largest percentage of the submitter's 
production volume for that chemical substance, measured by weight. If 
none of the listed industrial function categories accurately describes a 
use of a chemical substance, the category ``Other'' may be used, and 
must include a description of the use.

       Table 8--Codes for Reporting Industrial Function Categories
------------------------------------------------------------------------
               Code                               Category
------------------------------------------------------------------------
U001..............................  Abrasives.
U002..............................  Adhesives and sealant chemicals.
U003..............................  Adsorbents and absorbents.
U004..............................  Agricultural chemicals (non-
                                     pesticidal).
U005..............................  Anti-adhesive agents.
U006..............................  Bleaching agents.
U007..............................  Corrosion inhibitors and anti-
                                     scaling agents.
U008..............................  Dyes.
U009..............................  Fillers.
U010..............................  Finishing agents.
U011..............................  Flame retardants.
U012..............................  Fuels and fuel additives.
U013..............................  Functional fluids (closed systems).
U014..............................  Functional fluids (open systems).
U015..............................  Intermediates.
U016..............................  Ion exchange agents.
U017..............................  Lubricants and lubricant additives.
U018..............................  Odor agents.
U019..............................  Oxidizing/reducing agents.
U020..............................  Photosensitive chemicals.
U021..............................  Pigments.
U022..............................  Plasticizers.
U023..............................  Plating agents and surface treating
                                     agents.
U024..............................  Process regulators.
U025..............................  Processing aids, specific to
                                     petroleum production.
U026..............................  Processing aids, not otherwise
                                     listed.
U027..............................  Propellants and blowing agents.
U028..............................  Solids separation agents.
U029..............................  Solvents (for cleaning or
                                     degreasing).
U030..............................  Solvents (which become part of
                                     product formulation or mixture).
U031..............................  Surface active agents.
U032..............................  Viscosity adjustors.
U033..............................  Laboratory chemicals.
U034..............................  Paint additives and coating
                                     additives not described by other
                                     categories.
U999..............................  Other (specify).
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (D) The estimated percentage, rounded off to the closest 10%, of 
total production volume of the reportable chemical substance associated 
with each combination of industrial processing or use operation, sector, 
and industrial function category. Where a particular combination of 
industrial processing or use operation, sector, and industrial function 
category accounts for less than 5% of the submitter's site's total 
production volume of a reportable chemical substance, the percentage 
must not be rounded off to 0% if the production volume attributable to 
that industrial processing or use operation, sector, and industrial 
function category combination is 25,000 lb (11,340

[[Page 58]]

kg) or more during the reporting year. Instead, in such a case, 
submitters must report the percentage, rounded off to the closest 1%, of 
the submitter's site's total production volume of the reportable 
chemical substance associated with the particular combination of 
industrial processing or use operation, sector, and industrial function 
category.
    (E) For each combination of industrial processing or use operation, 
sector, and industrial function category, the submitter must estimate 
the number of sites at which each reportable chemical substance is 
processed or used. For each combination associated with each chemical 
substance, the submitter must select from among the ranges of sites 
listed in Table 9 of this paragraph and report the corresponding code 
(i.e., S1 through S7):

              Table 9--Codes for Reporting Numbers of Sites
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Code                                 Range
------------------------------------------------------------------------
S1........................................  Fewer than 10 sites.
S2........................................  At least 10 but fewer than
                                             25 sites.
S3........................................  At least 25 but fewer than
                                             100 sites.
S4........................................  At least 100 but fewer than
                                             250 sites.
S5........................................  At least 250 but fewer than
                                             1,000 sites.
S6........................................  At least 1,000 but fewer
                                             than 10,000 sites.
S7........................................  At least 10,000 sites.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (F) For each combination of industrial processing or use operation, 
sector, and industrial function category, the submitter must estimate 
the number of workers reasonably likely to be exposed to each reportable 
chemical substance. For each combination associated with each chemical 
substance, the submitter must select from among the worker ranges listed 
in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section and report the corresponding 
code (i.e., W1 though W8).
    (ii) Consumer and commercial use information--(A) Using the codes 
listed in Table 10 of this paragraph, submitters must designate the 
consumer and commercial product category or categories that best 
describe the consumer and commercial products in which each reportable 
chemical substance is used (whether the recipient site(s) are controlled 
by the submitter site or not). If more than 10 codes apply to a chemical 
substance, submitters need only report the 10 codes for the chemical 
substance that cumulatively represent the largest percentage of the 
submitter's production volume for that chemical, measured by weight. If 
none of the listed consumer and commercial product categories accurately 
describes the consumer and commercial products in which each reportable 
chemical substance is used, the category ``Other'' may be used, and must 
include a description of the use.

Table 10--Codes for Reporting Consumer and Commercial Product Categories
------------------------------------------------------------------------
               Code                               Category
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Chemical Substances in Furnishing, Cleaning, Treatment Care Products
------------------------------------------------------------------------
C101..............................  Floor coverings.
C102..............................  Foam seating and bedding products.
C103..............................  Furniture and furnishings not
                                     covered elsewhere.
C104..............................  Fabric, textile, and leather
                                     products not covered elsewhere.
C105..............................  Cleaning and furnishing care
                                     products.
C106..............................  Laundry and dishwashing products.
C107..............................  Water treatment products.
C108..............................  Personal care products.
C109..............................  Air care products.
C110..............................  Apparel and footwear care products.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Chemical Substances in Construction, Paint, Electrical, and Metal
                                Products
------------------------------------------------------------------------
C201..............................  Adhesives and sealants.
C202..............................  Paints and coatings.
C203..............................  Building/construction materials--
                                     wood and engineered wood products.
C204..............................  Building/construction materials not
                                     covered elsewhere.
C205..............................  Electrical and electronic products.
C206..............................  Metal products not covered
                                     elsewhere.
C207..............................  Batteries.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Chemical Substances in Packaging, Paper, Plastic, Toys, Hobby Products
------------------------------------------------------------------------
C301..............................  Food packaging.

[[Page 59]]

 
C302..............................  Paper products.
C303..............................  Plastic and rubber products not
                                     covered elsewhere.
C304..............................  Toys, playground, and sporting
                                     equipment.
C305..............................  Arts, crafts, and hobby materials.
C306..............................  Ink, toner, and colorant products.
C307..............................  Photographic supplies, film, and
                                     photochemicals.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Chemical Substances in Automotive, Fuel, Agriculture, Outdoor Use
                                Products
------------------------------------------------------------------------
C401..............................  Automotive care products.
C402..............................  Lubricants and greases.
C403..............................  Anti-freeze and de-icing products.
C404..............................  Fuels and related products.
C405..............................  Explosive materials.
C406..............................  Agricultural products (non-
                                     pesticidal).
C407..............................  Lawn and garden care products.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Chemical Substances in Products not Described by Other Codes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
C980..............................  Non-TSCA use.
C909..............................  Other (specify).
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (B) An indication, within each consumer and commercial product 
category reported under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, whether 
the use is a consumer or a commercial use.
    (C) Submitters must determine, within each consumer and commercial 
product category reported under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, 
whether any amount of each reportable chemical substance manufactured 
(including imported) by the submitter is present in (for example, a 
plasticizer chemical substance used to make pacifiers) or on (for 
example, as a component in the paint on a toy) any consumer products 
intended for use by children age 14 or younger, regardless of the 
concentration of the chemical substance remaining in or on the product. 
Submitters must select from the following options: The chemical 
substance is used in or on any consumer products intended for use by 
children, the chemical substance is not used in or on any consumer 
products intended for use by children, or information as to whether the 
chemical substance is used in or on any consumer products intended for 
use by children is not known to or reasonably ascertainable by the 
submitter.
    (D) The estimated percentage, rounded off to the closest 10%, of the 
submitter's site's total production volume of the reportable chemical 
substance associated with each consumer and commercial product category. 
Where a particular consumer and commercial product category accounts for 
less than 5% of the total production volume of a reportable chemical 
substance, the percentage must not be rounded off to 0% if the 
production volume attributable to that commercial and consumer product 
category is 25,000 lb (11,340 kg) or more during the reporting year. 
Instead, in such a case, submitters must report the percentage, rounded 
off to the closest 1%, of the submitter's site's total production volume 
of the reportable chemical substance associated with the particular 
consumer and commercial product category.
    (E) Where the reportable chemical substance is used in consumer or 
commercial products, the estimated typical maximum concentration, 
measured by weight, of the chemical substance in each consumer and 
commercial product category reported under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of 
this section. For each chemical substance in each commercial and 
consumer product category reported under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this 
section, submitters must select from among the ranges of concentrations 
listed in Table 5 in paragraph (b)(3)(viii) of this section and report 
the corresponding code (i.e., M1 through M5).

[[Page 60]]

    (F) Where the reportable chemical substance is used in a commercial 
product, the submitter must estimate the number of commercial workers 
reasonably likely to be exposed to each reportable chemical substance. 
For each combination associated with each substance, the submitter must 
select from among the worker ranges listed in Table 4 in paragraph 
(b)(3)(vii) of this section and report the corresponding code (i.e., W1 
though W8).


<R05>
Sec. 711.20  When to report.

    All information reported to EPA in response to the requirements of 
this part must be submitted during an applicable submission period. The 
2012 CDR submission period is from February 1, 2012 to August 13, 2012. 
Subsequent recurring submission periods are from June 1 to September 30 
at 4-year intervals, beginning in 2016. In each submission period, any 
person described in Sec. 711.8 must report as described in this part.

[76 FR 54933, Sept. 6, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 36172, June 18, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 711.22  Duplicative reporting.

    (a) With regard to TSCA section 8(a) rules. Any person subject to 
the requirements of this part who previously has complied with reporting 
requirements of a rule under TSCA section 8(a) by submitting the 
information described in Sec. 711.15 for a chemical substance described 
in Sec. 711.5 to EPA, and has done so within 1 year of the start of a 
submission period described in Sec. 711.20, is not required to report 
again on the manufacture of that chemical substance at that site during 
that submission period.
    (b) With regard to importers. This part requires that only one 
report be submitted on each import transaction involving a chemical 
substance described in Sec. 711.5. When two or more persons are 
involved in a particular import transaction and each person meets the 
Agency's definition of ``importer'' as set forth in 40 CFR 704.3, they 
may determine among themselves who should submit the required report; if 
no report is submitted as required under this part, EPA will hold each 
such person liable for failure to report.
    (c) Toll manufacturers and persons contracting with a toll 
manufacturer. This part requires that only one report per site be 
submitted on each chemical substance described in Sec. 711.5. When a 
company contracts with a toll manufacturer to manufacture a chemical 
substance, and each party meets the Agency's definition of 
``manufacturer'' as set forth in Sec. 711.3, they may determine among 
themselves who should submit the required report for that site. However, 
both the contracting company and the toll manufacturer are liable if no 
report is made.


<R05>
Sec. 711.25  Recordkeeping requirements.

    Each person who is subject to the reporting requirements of this 
part must retain records that document any information reported to EPA. 
Records relevant to reporting during a submission period must be 
retained for a period of 5 years beginning on the last day of the 
submission period. Submitters are encouraged to retain their records 
longer than 5 years to ensure that past records are available as a 
reference when new submissions are being generated.


<R05>
Sec. 711.30  Confidentiality claims.

    (a) Confidentiality claims. Any person submitting information under 
this part may assert a business confidentiality claim for the 
information at the time it is submitted. Any such confidentiality claims 
must be made at the time the information is submitted. Confidentiality 
claims cannot be made when a response is left blank or designated as not 
known or reasonably ascertainable. These claims will apply only to the 
information submitted with the claim. New confidentiality claims, if 
appropriate, must be asserted with regard to information submitted 
during a different submission period. Guidance for asserting 
confidentiality claims is provided in the instructions identified in 
Sec. 711.35. Information claimed as confidential in accordance with 
this section will be treated and disclosed in accordance with the 
procedures in 40 CFR part 2.
    (b) Chemical identity. A person may assert a claim of 
confidentiality for the chemical identity of a specific chemical 
substance only if the identity of

[[Page 61]]

that chemical substance is treated as confidential in the Master 
Inventory File as of the time the report is submitted for that chemical 
substance under this part. The following steps must be taken to assert a 
claim of confidentiality for the identity of a reportable chemical 
substance:
    (1) The submitter must submit with the report detailed written 
answers to the following questions signed and dated by an authorized 
official.
    (i) What harmful effects to your competitive position, if any, or to 
your supplier's competitive position, do you think would result from the 
identity of the chemical substance being disclosed in connection with 
reporting under this part? How could a competitor use such information? 
Would the effects of disclosure be substantial? What is the causal 
relationship between the disclosure and the harmful effects?
    (ii) How long should confidential treatment be given? Until a 
specific date, the occurrence of a specific event, or permanently? Why?
    (iii) Has the chemical substance been patented? If so, have you 
granted licenses to others with respect to the patent as it applies to 
the chemical substance? If the chemical substance has been patented and 
therefore disclosed through the patent, why should it be treated as 
confidential?
    (iv) Has the identity of the chemical substance been kept 
confidential to the extent that your competitors do not know it is being 
manufactured or imported for a commercial purpose by anyone?
    (v) Is the fact that the chemical substance is being manufactured 
(including imported) for a commercial purpose available to the public, 
for example in technical journals, libraries, or State, local, or 
Federal agency public files?
    (vi) What measures have been taken to prevent undesired disclosure 
of the fact that the chemical substance is being manufactured (including 
imported) for a commercial purpose?
    (vii) To what extent has the fact that this chemical substance is 
manufactured (including imported) for commercial purposes been revealed 
to others? What precautions have been taken regarding these disclosures? 
Have there been public disclosures or disclosures to competitors?
    (viii) Does this particular chemical substance leave the site of 
manufacture (including import) in any form, e.g., as product, effluent, 
emission? If so, what measures have been taken to guard against the 
discovery of its identity?
    (ix) If the chemical substance leaves the site in a product that is 
available to the public or your competitors, can the chemical substance 
be identified by analysis of the product?
    (x) For what purpose do you manufacture (including import) the 
chemical substance?
    (xi) Has EPA, another Federal agency, or any Federal court made any 
pertinent confidentiality determinations regarding this chemical 
substance? If so, please attach copies of such determinations.
    (2) If any of the information contained in the answers to the 
questions listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is asserted to 
contain confidential business information (CBI), the submitter must 
clearly identify the information that is claimed confidential by marking 
the specific information on each page with a label such as 
``confidential business information,'' ``proprietary,'' or ``trade 
secret.''
    (c) Site identity. A submitter may assert a claim of confidentiality 
for a site only if the linkage of the site with a reportable chemical 
substance is confidential and not publicly available. The following 
steps must be taken to assert a claim of confidentiality for a site 
identity:
    (1) The submitter must submit with the report detailed written 
answers to the following questions signed and dated by an authorized 
official:
    (i) Has site information been linked with a chemical identity in any 
other Federal, State, or local reporting scheme? For example, is the 
chemical identity linked to a facility in a filing under the Emergency 
Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA) section 311, namely 
through a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS)? If so, identify all such 
schemes. Was the linkage claimed as confidential in any of these 
instances?

[[Page 62]]

    (ii) What harmful effect, if any, to your competitive position do 
you think would result from the identity of the site and the chemical 
substance being disclosed in connection with reporting under this part? 
How could a competitor use such information? Would the effects of 
disclosure be substantial? What is the causal relationship between the 
disclosure and the harmful effects?
    (2) If any of the information contained in the answers to the 
questions listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section is asserted to 
contain CBI, the submitter must clearly identify the information that is 
claimed confidential by marking the specific information on each page 
with a label such as ``confidential business information,'' 
``proprietary,'' or ``trade secret.''
    (d) Processing and use information. A submitter may assert a claim 
of confidentiality for each data element required by Sec. 711.15(b)(4) 
only if the linkage of the information with a reportable chemical 
substance is confidential and not publicly available. The following 
steps must be taken to assert a claim of confidentiality for each data 
element, individually, required by Sec. 711.15(b)(4):
    (1) The submitter must submit with the report detailed written 
answers to the following questions signed and dated by an authorized 
official:
    (i) Is the identified use of this chemical substance publicly known? 
For example, is information on the use available in advertisements or 
other marketing materials, professional journals or other similar 
materials, or in non-confidential mandatory or voluntary government 
filings or publications? Has your company ever provided use information 
on the chemical substance that was not claimed as confidential?
    (ii) What harmful effect, if any, to your competitive position or to 
your customer's competitive position do you think would result from the 
information reported as required by Sec. 711.15(b)(4) and the chemical 
substance being disclosed in connection with reporting under this part? 
How could a competitor use such information? Would the effects of 
disclosure be substantial? What is the causal relationship between the 
disclosure and the substantial harmful effects?
    (2) If any of the information contained in the answers to the 
questions listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is asserted to 
contain CBI, the submitter must clearly identify the information that is 
claimed confidential by marking the specific information on each page 
with a label such as ``confidential business information,'' 
``proprietary,'' or ``trade secret.''
    (e) No claim of confidentiality. If no claim of confidentiality is 
indicated on Form U submitted to EPA under this part; if Form U lacks 
the certification required by Sec. 711.15(b)(1); if confidentiality 
claim substantiation required under paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this 
section is not submitted with Form U; or if the identity of a chemical 
substance listed on the non-confidential portion of the Master Inventory 
File is claimed as confidential, EPA may make the information available 
to the public without further notice to the submitter.


<R05>
Sec. 711.35  Electronic filing.

    (a) You must use e-CDRweb to complete and submit Form U (EPA Form 
7740-8). Submissions may only be made as set forth in this section.
    (b) Submissions must be sent electronically to EPA via CDX.
    (c) Access e-CDRweb and instructions, as follows:
    (1) By Web site. Go to the EPA Inventory Update Reporting Internet 
homepage at http://www.epa.gov/iur and follow the appropriate links.
    (2) By phone or e-mail. Contact the EPA TSCA Hotline at (202) 554-
1404 or TSCA-Hotline@epa.gov for a CD-ROM containing the instructions.


<R03>
PART 712_CHEMICAL INFORMATION RULES--Table of Contents



                      Subpart A_General Provisions

Sec.
712.1 Scope and compliance.
712.3 Definitions.
712.5 Method of identification of substances for reporting purposes.
712.7 Report of readily obtainable information for subparts B and C.
712.15 Confidentiality.

[[Page 63]]

  Subpart B_Manufacturers Reporting_Preliminary Assessment Information

712.20 Manufacturers and importers who must report.
712.25 Exempt manufacturers and importers.
712.28 Form and instructions.
712.30 Chemical lists and reporting periods.

    Authority: 15 U.S.C. 2607(a).

    Source: 47 FR 26998, June 22, 1982, unless otherwise noted.


<R04>
                      Subpart A_General Provisions


<R05>
Sec. 712.1  Scope and compliance.

    (a) This part establishes procedures for chemical manufacturers and 
processors to report production, use, and exposure-related information 
on listed chemical substances. Subpart A establishes requirements that 
apply to all reporting under this part. Subpart B covers manufacturers' 
and processors' reporting.
    (b) Chemical substances, mixtures, and categories of substances or 
mixtures which have been recommended by the Interagency Testing 
Committee for testing consideration by the Agency but not designated for 
Agency response within 12 months, will be added to Sec. 712.30 using 
the procedure specified in Sec. 712.30(c) only to the extent that the 
total number of designated and recommended chemicals has not exceeded 50 
in any 1 year. Additional recommended but not designated chemicals may 
be added after proposal, and consideration of public comment.

[47 FR 26998, June 22, 1982, as amended at 50 FR 34809, Aug. 28, 1985; 
60 FR 31921, June 19, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 712.3  Definitions.

    The definitions in section 3 of TSCA, 15 U.S.C. 2602, apply for this 
part. In addition, the following definitions apply:
    (a) Byproduct means any chemical substance or mixture produced 
without a separate commercial intent during the manufacture, processing, 
use, or disposal of another chemical substance or mixture.
    (b) EPA means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
    (c) Import in bulk form means to import a chemical substance (other 
than as part of a mixture or article) in any quantity, in cans, bottles, 
drums, barrels, packages, tanks, bags, or other containers used for 
purposes of transportation or containment, if the chemical substance has 
an end use or commercial purpose separate from the container.
    (d) Importer means anyone who imports a chemical substance, 
including a chemical substance as part of a mixture or article, into the 
customs territory of the U.S. and includes the person liable for the 
payment of any duties on the merchandise, or an authorized agent on his 
behalf. Importer also includes, as appropriate:
    (1) The consignee.
    (2) The importer of record.
    (3) The actual owner if an actual owner's declaration and 
superseding bond has been filed in accordance with 19 CFR 141.20.
    (4) The transferee, if the right to withdraw merchandise in a bonded 
warehouse has been transferred in accordance with subpart C of 19 CFR 
part 144. For the purposes of this definition, the customs territory of 
the U.S. consists of the 50 states, Puerto Rico, and the District of 
Columbia.
    (e) Impurity means a chemical substance unintentionally present with 
another chemical substance or mixture.
    (f) Intermediate means any chemical substance that is consumed, in 
whole or in part, in chemical reactions used for the intentional 
manufacture of other chemical substances or mixtures, or that is 
intentionally present for the purpose of altering the rates of such 
chemical reactions. (See also paragraph (j) of this section.)
    (g) Known to or reasonably ascertainable by means all information in 
a person's possession or control, plus all information that a reasonable 
person similarly situated might be expected to possess, control, or 
know, or could obtain without unreasonable burden.
    (h) Manufacture for commercial purposes means to import, produce, or 
manufacture with the purpose of obtaining an immediate or eventual 
commercial advantage for the manufacturer and includes, among other 
things, such ``manufacture'' of any

[[Page 64]]

amount of a chemical substance or mixture:
    (1) For commercial distribution, including for test marketing.
    (2) For use by the manufacturer, including use for product research 
and development, or as an intermediate. Manufacture for commercial 
purposes also applies to substances that are produced coincidentally 
during the manufacture, processing, use, or disposal of another 
substance or mixture, including byproducts and coproducts that are 
separated from that other substance or mixture, and impurities that 
remain in that substance or mixture. Byproducts and impurities may not 
in themselves have commercial value. They are nonetheless produced for 
the purpose of obtaining a commercial advantage since they are part of 
the manufacture of a chemical produced for a commercial purpose.
    (i) Mixture means any combination of two or more chemical substances 
if the combination does not occur in nature and is not, in whole or in 
part, the result of a chemical reaction; except that mixture does 
include (1) any combination which occurs, in whole or in part, as a 
result of a chemical reaction if the combination could have been 
manufactured for commercial purposes without a chemical reaction at the 
time the chemical substances comprising the combination were combined, 
and if all of the chemical substances comprising the combination are 
included in the EPA, TSCA Chemical Substance Inventory after the 
effective date of the premanufacture notification requirement under 40 
CFR part 720, and (2) hydrates of a chemical substance or hydrated ions 
formed by association of a chemical substance with water. The term 
mixture includes alloys, inorganic glasses, ceramics, frits, and 
cements, including Portland cement.
    (j) Non-isolated intermediate means any intermediate that is not 
intentionally removed from the equipment in which it is manufactured, 
including the reaction vessel in which it is manufactured, equipment 
which is ancillary to the reaction vessel, and any equipment through 
which the substance passes during a continuous flow process, but not 
including tanks or other vessels in which the substance is stored after 
its manufacture. (See also paragraph (f) of this section.)
    (k) Owned or controlled by the parent company means the parent owns 
or controls 50 percent or more of the other company's voting stock or 
other equity rights, or has the power to control the management and 
policies of the other company.
    (l) Person means any natural person, firm, company, corporation, 
joint venture, partnership, sole proprietorship, association, or any 
other business entity, any State or political subdivision thereof, any 
municipality, any interstate body, and any department, agency, or 
instrumentality of the Federal government.
    (m) Process for commercial purposes means the preparation of a 
chemical substance or mixture, after its manufacture, for distribution 
in commerce with the purpose of obtaining an immediate or eventual 
commercial advantage for the processor. Processing of any amount of a 
chemical substance or mixture is included. If a chemical or mixture 
containing impurities is processed for commercial purposes, then those 
impurities are also processed for commercial purposes.
    (n) Site means a contiguous property unit. Property divided only by 
a public right-of-way shall be considered one site. There may be more 
than one manufacturing plant on a single site.
    (o) Test marketing means distributing in commerce a limited amount 
of a chemical substance or mixture, or article containing such substance 
or mixture, to a defined number of potential customers, during a 
predetermined testing period, to explore market capability prior to 
broader distribution in commerce.
    (p) TSCA means the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. 2601 et 
seq.
    (q) Central Data Exchange or CDX means EPA's centralized electronic 
submission receiving system.
    (r) Chemical Information Submission System or CISS means EPA's 
electronic, web-based reporting tool for the completion and submission 
of data, reports, and other information, or its successors.

[47 FR 26998, June 22, 1982, as amended at 78 FR 72825, Dec. 4, 2013]

[[Page 65]]


<R05>
Sec. 712.5  Method of identification of substances for reporting
purposes.

    (a) Report on TSCA-regulable quantities. Unless specifically 
otherwise required, respondents must report only about quantities of a 
chemical that is defined as a chemical substance under TSCA section 
3(2).
    (b) Chemicals from natural sources. A manufacturer of a chemical 
substance which is extracted from an ore, from oil, or from any other 
natural source must report only about the manufacturing steps for, and 
the uses of, that chemical, not about production of the natural source 
material or other crude precursors derived from the natural source 
material.

    For example, persons who manufacture a chemical substance such as 
``sweetened naphtha, 64741-87-3,'' but do not refine the naphtha to 
produce ``hexane, 110-54-3'' would not report on hexane. Only the 
production of ``hexane'' as an isolated product must be reported--not 
previous production of more crude, complex substances such as naphtha 
from which hexane is extracted. Thus, persons who produce crude oil, 
ores, and other crude natural materials, but do not carry them through 
further manufacturing steps that produce a listed chemical have no 
reporting responsibilities under this Part. Note, however, that any 
method of extraction, refinement, or purification of a listed chemical 
substance is considered to be manufacturing for the purposes of this 
rule.

    (c) Chemical substances as marketed. This part requires reporting 
about chemical substances as they are marketed or used in practice. The 
following preparations of a chemical substance must be reported as the 
substance itself, not as a mixture, since these preparations are 
regarded as the substance in practice.
    (1) The chemical substance in aqueous solution.
    (2) The chemical substance containing an additive (such as a 
stabilizer or other chemical) to maintain the integrity or physical form 
of the substance.
    (3) The chemical substance in any grade of purity.


<R05>
Sec. 712.7  Report of readily obtainable information for subparts
B and C.

    TSCA section 8(a) authorizes EPA to require persons to report 
information that is known to or reasonably ascertainable by them. For 
purposes of subpart B, however, a lesser standard applies. Companies 
must report information that is readily obtainable by management and 
supervisory employees responsible for manufacturing, processing, 
distributing, technical services, and marketing. Extensive file searches 
are not required.

[47 FR 26998, June 22, 1982, as amended at 60 FR 31921, June 19, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 712.15  Confidentiality.

    (a) Any person submitting information under this part may assert 
business confidentiality claims for the information as described in the 
pertinent reporting form and its instructions. Any information covered 
by a claim will be disclosed by EPA only as provided in the procedures 
set forth at 40 CFR part 2.
    (b) Persons must certify to the validity of a claim of 
confidentiality they make for information reported under this part, as 
specified on the reporting form.
    (c) If no claim accompanies the information at the time it is 
submitted to EPA or if certification as to the claim is not made on the 
reporting form, EPA may place the information in an open file available 
to the public without further notice to the submitter.


<R04>
  Subpart B_Manufacturers Reporting_Preliminary Assessment Information


<R05>
Sec. 712.20  Manufacturers and importers who must report.

    Except as described in Sec. 712.25, at the time a chemical 
substance is listed in Sec. 712.3, the following persons must submit 
the ``Manufacturer's Report--Preliminary Assessment Information'' (as 
described in Sec. 712.28) for each plant site at which they 
manufactured or imported the chemical substance during the reporting 
period specified in Sec. 712.30:
    (a) Persons who manufactured one or more of the chemical substances 
listed in Sec. 712.30 for commercial purposes.
    (b) Persons who imported in bulk form one or more of the chemical 
substances listed in Sec. 712.30 for commercial purposes.

[[Page 66]]


<R05>
Sec. 712.25  Exempt manufacturers and importers.

    (a) Persons who manufactured or imported the chemical substance 
during the reporting period, solely for purposes of scientific 
experimentation, analysis, or research, including research or analysis 
for product development, are not subject to reporting under Sec. 
712.20.
    (b) Persons who, during the reporting period, manufactured or 
imported fewer than 500 kilograms (1100 pounds) of the chemical 
substance at a single plant site are not subject to reporting for that 
site under Sec. 712.20.
    (c) Persons who qualify as small manufacturers or importers in 
respect to a specific chemical substance listed in Sec. 712.30 are 
exempt. However, this exemption does not apply with respect to any 
chemical in Sec. 712.30 designated by an asterisk. A manufacturer is 
qualified as small and is exempt from submitting a report under this 
subpart for a chemical substance manufactured at a particular plant site 
if both of the following criteria are met:
    (1) Total annual sales taken together of all sites owned or 
controlled by the foreign or domestic parent company were below $30 
million for the reporting period;
    (2) Total production of the listed substance for the reporting 
period was below 45,400 kilograms (100,000 pounds) at the plant site.
    (d) Persons are not subject to reporting under Sec. 712.20 if they 
manufactured or imported the chemical substance during the reporting 
period only in the following forms:
    (1) As a byproduct that was not used or sold or that was formed as 
described in 40 CFR 710.4(d) (3) through (7).
    (2) As a non-isolated intermediate.
    (3) As an impurity.

[47 FR 26998, June 22, 1982; 47 FR 28382, June 30, 1982]


<R05>
Sec. 712.28  Form and instructions.

    (a) Manufacturers and importers subject to this subpart must submit 
a single EPA Form No. 7710-35, ``Manufacturer's Report--Preliminary 
Assessment Information,'' for each plant site manufacturing or importing 
a chemical substance listed in Sec. 712.30.
    (b) Reporting companies may submit their reports through individual 
plant sites or company headquarters as they choose. A separate form must 
be submitted for each plant site manufacturing the chemical substance.
    (c) Persons authorized to report information under this subpart must 
include the following information on Form 7710-35, Manufacturer's 
Report--Preliminary Assessment Information (Manufacturer's Report):
    (1) A certification as to the truth and accuracy of the information 
reported signed and dated by an authorized person located at the plant 
site or corporate headquarters of the respondent company.
    (2) A confidentiality statement signed and dated by an authorized 
person located at the plant site or corporate headquarters of the 
respondent company.
    (3) The specific chemical name and Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) 
Registry Number listed in 40 CFR 712.30.
    (4) The name, company, address, city, State, ZIP code, and telephone 
number of a person who is submitting the form, which may be a person 
located at a plant site or corporate headquarters that will serve as the 
respondent, and will be able to answer questions about the information 
submitted by the company to EPA. A respondent to this subpart must 
include the appropriate Dun and Bradstreet Number for each plant site 
reported.
    (5) The plant site activities, such as the manufacturing of a 
chemical substance, including the total quantity of the chemical 
substance (in kilograms) imported in bulk during the reporting period.
    (6) The total number of workers and total worker-hours in each 
process category, which includes enclosed process, controlled release 
process, and open process.
    (7) The information related to chemical substance processing by 
customers, including customers' use in industrial and consumer products, 
the market names under which the chemical substance is manufactured or 
imported, and the customer's process categories that are sold to 
customers for further processing.

[[Page 67]]

    (d) Persons must use the CISS tool to complete and submit Form 7710-
35, Manufacturer's Report, and accompanying letters, via CDX. Submission 
requires registration with CDX, and must be made only as set forth in 
this section.
    (e) To access the CISS tool go to https://cdx.epa.gov/ssl/CSPP/
PrimaryAuthorizedOfficial/Home.aspx and follow the appropriate links, 
and for further instructions to go http://www.epa.gov/oppt/chemtest/
ereporting/index.html.

[47 FR 26998, June 22, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 20083, May 29, 1987; 53 
FR 12523, Apr. 15, 1988; 60 FR 31921, June 19, 1995; 60 FR 34463, July 
3, 1995; 71 FR 47126, Aug. 16, 2006; 78 FR 72825, Dec. 4, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 712.30  Chemical lists and reporting periods.

    (a)(1) Persons subject to this subpart B must submit a Preliminary 
Assessment Information Manufacturer's Report for each chemical substance 
or mixture that is listed or designated in this section.
    (2) Unless a respondent has already prepared a Manufacturer's Report 
in conformity with conditions set forth in paragraph (a)(3) of this 
section, the information in each Manufacturer's Report must cover the 
respondent's latest complete corporate fiscal year as of the effective 
date. The effective date will be 30 days after the Federal Register 
publishes a rule amendment making the substance or mixture subject to 
this subpart B.
    (3) Persons subject to this subpart B need not comply with the 
requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section if they meet either one 
of the following conditions:
    (i)(A) The respondent has previously and voluntarily provided EPA 
with a Manufacturer's Report on a chemical substance or mixture subject 
to subpart B of this part, which contains data for a 1-year period 
ending no more than 3 years prior to the effective date described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Respondents meeting this condition 
must notify EPA by letter of their desire to have the voluntary 
submission used in lieu of a current data submission and must verify the 
completeness and current accuracy of the voluntarily submitted data. 
Such letters, sent in accordance with the method specified in Sec. 
712.28(d) to EPA, must contain the following language:

    I hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all 
information entered on this form is complete and accurate. I agree to 
permit access to, and the copying of records by, a duly authorized 
representative of the EPA Administrator, in accordance with the Toxic 
Substances Control Act, to document any information reported on the 
form.

    (B) Notification letters must be submitted in accordance with the 
method specified in Sec. 712.28(d) prior to the reporting deadline.
    (ii)(A) The respondent has previously submitted a Manufacturer's 
Report on a chemical substance or mixture subject to subpart B of this 
part to the Interagency Testing Committee, but not to EPA, and that 
Manufacturer's Report contained data for a 1-year period ending less 
than 3 years prior to the effective date described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section. Respondents meeting this condition must submit a copy 
of the Manufacture's Report, in accordance with the method specified in 
Sec. 712.28(d) to EPA, and must submit an accompanying letter, also in 
accordance with the methods specified in Sec. 712.28(d), notifying EPA 
of the respondent's intent that the submission be used in lieu of a 
current Manufacturer's Report. The notification letter must verify the 
completeness and current accuracy of the voluntarily submitted data. 
Such a letter must contain the following language:

    I hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all 
information entered on this form is complete and accurate. I agree to 
permit access to, and the copying of records by, a duly authorized 
representative of the EPA Administrator, in accordance with the Toxic 
Substances Control Act, to document any information reported on the 
form.

    (B) The submission must be made prior to the reporting deadline.
    (b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, chemical 
substances and designated mixtures will be added after a notice of 
proposed amendment of this subpart is published in the Federal Register. 
There will be a 30 day public comment period on each notice;

[[Page 68]]

after consideration of the comments, a final amendment will identify the 
substances and mixtures added.
    (c)(1) Chemical substances, mixtures, and categories of substances 
or mixtures that have been added by the Interagency Testing Committee, 
established under section 4(e) of TSCA, to the section 4(e) Priority 
List, for testing consideration by the Agency, will be added to this 
section 30 days after EPA issues for publication in the Federal Register 
a rule amendment listing these chemical substances, mixtures and 
categories. A Preliminary Assessment Information--Manufacturer's Report 
must be submitted for each chemical substance and mixture within 60 days 
after the effective date of the listing. At the discretion of the 
Assistant Administrator for Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention, a 
listed substance, mixture or category may be withdrawn, for good cause, 
from the rule's reporting requirements prior to the effective date. Any 
information submitted showing why a substance, mixture or category 
should be removed from the rule must be received by EPA within 14 days 
after the date of publication of the notice under this paragraph. If a 
substance, mixture or category is removed, a Federal Register notice 
announcing this decision will be published no later than the effective 
date of the amendment.
    (2) You must submit the information using the method specified in 
Sec. 712.28(d).
    (d) Manufacturers and importers of the substances listed below must 
submit a Preliminary Assessment Information Manufacturer's Report for 
each site at which they manufacture or import each substance by the 
reporting date shown in the table below. The substances are listed in 
Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number order. Typically EPA lists 
the trivial or common name first, then, following the symbol ``- -'', 
EPA lists the substance by its TSCA Chemical Substance Inventory name. 
Whenever EPA lists a single name, the name may be either the TSCA 
Chemical Substance Inventory name, a trivial name, or a common name. 
Generally, when a single name is listed, it is the TSCA Chemical 
Substances Inventory name.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   Effective   Reporting
        CAS No.                 Substance            date        date
------------------------------------------------------------------------
78-10-4                 Ethyl silicate..........     8/23/00    10/23/00
90-30-2                 N-Phenyl-1-naphthylamine     9/30/91    11/27/91
100-40-3                4-Vinylcyclohexene......     1/11/90     3/12/90
108-95-5                Thiophenol..............     1/26/94     3/28/94
109-87-5                Methylal................     8/23/00    10/23/00
118-79-6                2,4,6-tribromophenol....     1/11/90     3/12/90
133-49-3                Pentachlorothiophenol...     8/27/01    10/24/01
136-35-6                1-Triazene, 1,3-diphenyl-    7/11/03      9/9/03
                         .
143-33-9                Sodium cyanide..........    10/29/90    12/27/90
496-46-8                Glycoluril..............     8/23/00    10/23/00
632-79-1                Tetrabromophthalic           1/11/90     3/12/90
                         anhydride.
637-92-3                Ethyl tert-butyl ether..    12/28/94     2/27/95
994-05-8                Tert-amyl methyl ether..    12/28/94     2/27/95
1163-19-5               Decabromodiphenyl ether.     1/11/90     3/12/90
1198-55-6               Tetrachloropyrocatechol.     8/27/01    10/24/01
1806-24-2               p-toluidine, 5-chloro-       8/27/01    10/24/01
                         .alpha.,.alpha.,.alpha.-
                         trifluoro-2-nitro-N-
                         phenyl-.
3194-55-6               Hexabromocyclododecane..     1/11/90     3/12/90
3278-89-5               Benzene, 1,3,5-tribromo-     7/11/03      9/9/03
                         2-(2-propenyloxy)-.
3296-90-0               Dibromoneopentyl glycol.     1/11/90     3/12/90
12185-10-3              White phosphorus........     1/26/94     3/28/94
16691-43-3              3-Amino-5-mercapto-1,2,4-    8/23/00    10/23/00
                         triazole.
29091-20-1              Benzenamine, 3-chloro-       7/11/03      9/9/03
                         2,6-dinitro-N,N-
                         dipropyl-4-
                         (trifluoromethyl)-.
32534-81-9              Pentabromodiphenyl ether     1/11/90     3/12/90
32536-52-0              Octabromodiphenyl ether.     1/11/90     3/12/90
32588-76-4              Ethylene Bis-                1/11/90     3/12/90
                         (tetrabromophthalimide).
37853-59-1              1,2-Bis(tribromophenoxy)     1/11/90     3/12/90
                         ethane.
41291-34-3              Ethylene(5,6-                1/11/90     3/12/90
                         dibromonorbornane-2,3-
                         dicarboximide).
52907-07-0              Ethylene bis(5,6-            1/26/94     3/28/94
                         dibromonorbornane-2,3-
                         dicarboximide).
57137-10-7              Tribrominated                1/11/90     3/12/90
                         polystyrene.
61262-53-1              Ethylene                     1/11/90     3/12/90
                         bis(pentabromophenoxide
                         ).
68928-76-7              Stannane, dimethylbis[(1-    7/11/03      9/9/03
                         oxoneodecyl)oxy]-.
88185-22-2              Benzoic acid, 3-[2-          8/27/01    10/24/01
                         chloro-4-
                         (trifluoromethyl)phenox
                         y]-, 2-ethoxy-1-methyl-
                         2-oxoethyl ester.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


[[Page 69]]

    (e) Manufacturers and importers of the substances listed below by 
category must submit a Preliminary Assessment Information Manufacturers 
Report for each site at which they manufacture or import each substance 
by the reporting date shown in the table below. The categories are 
listed in alphabetic order with the chemical substances within each 
category listed by ascending numerical CAS number.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   Effective   Reporting
     CAS No.                 Substance               date        date
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                Aldehydes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
66-77-3           1-Naphthalenecarboxaldehyde...     9/30/91    11/27/91
75-07-0           Acetaldehyde..................     9/30/91    11/27/91
75-87-6           Acetaldehyde, trichloro-......     9/30/91    11/27/91
78-84-2           Propanal, 2-methyl-...........     9/30/91    11/27/91
78-85-3           2-Propenal, 2-methyl-.........     9/30/91    11/27/91
80-54-6           Benzenepropanal,4-(1,1-            9/30/91    11/27/91
                   dimethylethyl)-.alpha.-methyl-
                   .
84-83-3           Acetaldehyde, (1,3-dihydro-
                   1,3, 3-trimethyl-2H-indol-2-
                   ylidene).
89-98-5           Benzaldehyde, 2-chloro-.......     9/30/91    11/27/91
90-02-8           Benzaldehyde, 2-hydroxy-......     9/30/91    11/27/91
93-02-7           Benzaldehyde, 2,5-dimethoxy-..     9/30/91    11/27/91
93-53-8           Benzeneacetaldehyde, .alpha.-      9/30/91    11/27/91
                   methyl-.
95-01-2           Benzaldehyde, 2,4-dihydroxy-..     9/30/91    11/27/91
97-51-8           Benzaldehyde, 2-hydroxy-5-         9/30/91    11/27/91
                   nitro-.
98-01-1           2-Furancarboxaldehyde.........     9/30/91    11/27/91
98-03-3           2-Thiophenecarboxaldehyde.....     9/30/91    11/27/91
100-10-7          Benzaldehyde, 4-                   9/30/91    11/27/91
                   (dimethylamino)-.
100-50-5          3-Cyclohexene-1-carboxaldehyde     9/30/91    11/27/91
100-52-7          Benzaldehyde..................     9/30/91    11/27/91
101-39-3          2-Propenal, 2-methyl-3-phenyl-     9/30/91    11/27/91
101-86-0          Octanal, 2-(phenylmethylene)-.     9/30/91    11/27/91
103-95-7          Benzenepropanal, .alpha.-          9/30/91    11/27/91
                   methyl-4-(1-methylethyl)-.
104-09-6          Benzeneacetaldehyde, 4-methyl-     9/30/91    11/27/91
104-55-2          2-Propenal, 3-phenyl-.........     9/30/91    11/27/91
104-87-0          Benzaldehyde, 4-methyl-.......     9/30/91    11/27/91
104-88-1          Benzaldehyde, 4-chloro-.......     9/30/91    11/27/91
106-23-0          6-Octenal, 3,7-dimethyl-......     9/30/91    11/27/91
106-26-3          2,6-Octadienal, 3,7-dimethyl-,     9/30/91    11/27/91
                   (Z)-.
106-72-9          5-Heptenal, 2,6-dimethyl-.....     9/30/91    11/27/91
107-02-8          2-Propenal....................     9/30/91    11/27/91
107-20-0          Acetaldehyde, chloro-.........     9/30/91    11/27/91
107-22-2          Ethanedial....................     9/30/91    11/27/91
107-75-5          Octanal, 7-hydroxy-3,7-            9/30/91    11/27/91
                   dimethyl-.
110-41-8          Undecanal, 2-methyl-..........     9/30/91    11/27/91
110-62-3          Pentanal......................     9/30/91    11/27/91
111-30-8          Pentanedial...................     9/30/91    11/27/91
111-71-7          Heptanal......................     9/30/91    11/27/91
112-31-2          Decanal.......................     9/30/91    11/27/91
112-44-7          Undecanal.....................     9/30/91    11/27/91
112-45-8          10-Undecenal..................     9/30/91    11/27/91
112-54-9          Dodecanal.....................     9/30/91    11/27/91
120-14-9          Benzaldehyde, 3,4-dimethoxy-..     9/30/91    11/27/91
120-21-8          Benzaldehyde, 4-(diethylamino)-    9/30/91    11/27/91
                   .
120-57-0          1,3-Benzodioxole-5-                9/30/91    11/27/91
                   carboxaldehyde.
121-32-4          Benzaldehyde, 3-ethoxy-4-          9/30/91    11/27/91
                   hydroxy-.
121-33-5          Benzaldehyde, 4-hydroxy-3-         9/30/91    11/27/91
                   methoxy-.
122-40-7          Heptanal, 2-(phenylmethylene)-     9/30/91    11/27/91
122-78-1          Benzeneacetaldehyde...........     9/30/91    11/27/91
123-05-7          Hexanal, 2-ethyl-.............     9/30/91    11/27/91
123-08-0          Benzaldehyde, 4-hydroxy-......     9/30/91    11/27/91
123-11-5          Benzaldehyde, 4-methoxy-......     9/30/91    11/27/91
123-38-6          Propanal......................     9/30/91    11/27/91
124-13-0          Octanal.......................     9/30/91    11/27/91
124-19-6          Nonanal.......................     9/30/91    11/27/91
126-15-8          4a(4H)-                            9/30/91    11/27/91
                   Dibenzofurancarboxaldehyde,
                   1,5a,6,9,9a,9b-hexahydro-.
135-02-4          Benzaldehyde, 2-methoxy-......     9/30/91    11/27/91
141-27-5          2,6-Octadienal, 3,7-dimethyl-,     9/30/91    11/27/91
                   (E)-.
143-14-6          9-Undecenal...................     9/30/91    11/27/91
455-19-6          Benzaldehyde, 4-                   9/30/91    11/27/91
                   (trifluoromethyl)-.
505-57-7          02-Hexenal....................     9/30/91    11/27/91
552-89-6          Benzaldehyde, 2-nitro-........     9/30/91    11/27/91
590-86-3          Butanal, 3-methyl-............     9/30/91    11/27/91
597-31-9          Propanal, 3-hydroxy-2,2-           9/30/91    11/27/91
                   dimethyl-.
939-97-9          Benzaldehyde, 4-(1,1-              9/30/91    11/27/91
                   dimethylethyl)-.

[[Page 70]]

 
                                Aldehydes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
1121-60-4         2-Pyridinecarboxaldehyde......     9/30/91    11/27/91
1200-14-2         Benzaldehyde, 4-butyl.........     9/30/91    11/27/91
1331-92-6         2-Propenal, 3-phenyl-,             9/30/91    11/27/91
                   monopentyl deriv..
1334-78-7         Benzaldehyde, methyl-.........     9/30/91    11/27/91
1423-46-7         3-Cyclohexene-1-                   9/30/91    11/27/91
                   carboxaldehyde, 2,4,6-
                   trimethyl-.
1504-74-1         2-Propenal, 3-(2-                  9/30/91    11/27/91
                   methoxyphenyl)-.
2591-86-8         1-Piperidinecarboxaldehyde....     9/30/91    11/27/91
3132-99-8         Benzaldehyde, 3-bromo-........     9/30/91    11/27/91
3268-49-3         Propanal, 3-(methylthio)-.....     9/30/91    11/27/91
3613-30-7         Octanal, 7-methoxy-3,7-            9/30/91    11/27/91
                   dimethyl-.
4501-58-0         3-Cyclopentene-1-acetaldehyde,     9/30/91    11/27/91
                   2,2,3-trimethyl-.
5435-64-3         Hexanal, 3,5,5-trimethyl-.....     9/30/91    11/27/91
5780-07-4         1,3-Benzodioxole-5-                9/30/91    11/27/91
                   carboxaldehyde, 7-methoxy-.
5949-05-3         6-Octenal, 3,7-dimethyl-, (S)-     9/30/91    11/27/91
5988-91-0         Octanal, 3,7-dimethyl-........     9/30/91    11/27/91
10031-82-0        Benzaldehyde, 4-ethoxy-.......     9/30/91    11/27/91
13586-68-0        2-Propenal, 3- 4-(1,1-             9/30/91    11/27/91
                   dimethylethyl)phenyl-2-methyl-
                   .
17754-90-4        Benzaldehyde, 4-(diethylamino)-    9/30/91    11/27/91
                   2-hydroxy-.
26266-68-2        Hexenal, 2-ethyl-.............     9/30/91    11/27/91
27939-60-2        3-Cyclohexene-1-                   9/30/91    11/27/91
                   carboxaldehyde, dimethyl-.
28602-27-9        Benzaldehyde, (dimethylamino)-     9/30/91    11/27/91
31906-04-4        3-Cyclohexene-1-                   9/30/91    11/27/91
                   carboxaldehyde, 4-(4-hydroxy-
                   4-methylpentyl)-.
37677-14-8        3-Cyclohexene-1-                   9/30/91    11/27/91
                   carboxaldehyde, 4-(4-methyl-3-
                   pentenyl)-.
39515-51-0        Benzaldehyde, 3-phenoxy-......     9/30/91    11/27/91
52475-86-2        3-Cyclohexene-1-                   9/30/91    11/27/91
                   carboxaldehyde, 1-methyl-4-(4-
                   methyl-3-pentenyl)-.
66327-54-6        3-Cyclohexene-1-                   9/30/91    11/27/91
                   carboxaldehyde, 1-methyl-4-(4-
                   methylpentyl)-.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
            Alkyl-, Chloro-, and Hydroxymethyl Diaryl Ethers
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3061-36-7         1,4-Diphenoxybenzene..........    04/12/93    06/10/93
3586-14-9         Benzene, 1-methyl-3-phenoxy-..    04/12/93    06/10/93
13826-35-2        Benzenemethanol, 3-phenoxy-,..    04/12/93    06/10/93
28299-41-4        Benzene, 1,1,'-oxybis[methyl-.    04/12/93    06/10/93
28984-89-6        1,1'-Biphenyl, phenoxy-.......    04/12/93    06/10/93
42874-96-4        2-Chloro-1-(3-methylphenoxy)-4-   04/12/93    06/10/93
                   (trifluoromethyl)benzene.
50594-77-9        Phenol, 3-[2-chloro-4-            04/12/93    06/10/93
                   (trifluoromethyl)phenoxy]-,
                   acetate.
50789-44-1        Benzenemethanol, 3-phenoxy-,      04/12/93    06/10/93
                   acetate.
51632-16-7        Benzene, 1-(bromomethyl)-3-       04/12/93    06/10/93
                   phenoxy-.
61702-88-3        Benzene, 1,1'-oxybis[(1,1,3,3-    04/12/93    06/10/93
                   tetramethylbutyl)-.
63734-62-3        Benzoic acid, 3-[2-chloro-4-      04/12/93    06/10/93
                   (trifluoromethyl)phenoxy]-,.
69834-19-1        Benzene, 1,1'-oxybis[dodecyl-.    04/12/93    06/10/93
72252-48-3        Benzoic acid, 3-[2-chloro-4-      04/12/93    06/10/93
                   (trifluoromethyl)phenoxy]-,
                   potassium salt.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Alkylphenols, Alkylphenol ethoxylates, and Polyalkylphenols
------------------------------------------------------------------------
80-46-6           4-tert-Pentylphenol...........     3/29/96     5/29/96
88-18-6           2-tert-Butylphenol............     3/29/96     5/29/96
94-06-4           4-(1-Methylbutyl)phenol.......     3/29/96     5/29/96
98-54-4           4-tert-Butylphenol............     3/29/96     5/29/96
99-71-8           4-sec-Butylphenol.............     3/29/96     5/29/96
104-40-5          4-Nonylphenol.................     3/29/96     5/29/96
104-43-8          4-Dodecylphenol...............     3/29/96     5/29/96
136-81-2          Phenol, 2-pentyl-.............      8/4/00     10/3/00
140-66-9          Phenol, 4-(1,1,3,3-                 8/4/00     10/3/00
                   tetramethylbutyl)-.
949-13-3          2-Octylphenol.................     3/29/96     5/29/96
1300-16-9         Nonylphenol (mixed isomers)...     3/29/96     5/29/96
1322-69-6         (1,1,3,3-                          3/29/96     5/29/96
                   Tetramethylbutyl)phenol
                   (mixed isomers).
1331-57-3         Dodecylphenol (mixed isomers).     3/29/96     5/29/96
1638-22-8         4-n-Butylphenol...............     3/29/96     5/29/96
1806-26-4         4-Octylphenol.................     3/29/96     5/29/96
1987-50-4         Phenol, 4-heptyl-.............      8/4/00     10/3/00
2315-66-4         Decaethylene glycol 4-             3/29/96     5/29/96
                   isooctylphenyl ether.
2446-69-7         Phenol, 4-hexyl-..............      8/4/00     10/3/00
2497-58-7         Hexaethylene glycol 4-             3/29/96     5/29/96
                   isooctylphenyl ether.
2589-78-8         Phenol, 4-hexadecyl-..........      8/4/00     10/3/00
3180-09-4         2-Butylphenol.................     3/29/96     5/29/96
3279-27-4         Phenol, 2-(1,1-dimethylpropyl)-     8/4/00     10/3/00
                   .
3884-95-5         2-(1,1,3,3-                        3/29/96     5/29/96
                   Tetramethylbutyl)phenol.
9002-93-1         Polyethylene glycol 4-(tert-       3/29/96     5/29/96
                   octyl)phenyl ether.
9004-87-9         Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl),           8/4/00     10/3/00
                   [alpha]-(isooctylphenyl)-
                   [omega]-hydroxy-.
9014-92-0         Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl),           8/4/00     10/3/00
                   [alpha]-(dodecylphenyl)-
                   [omega]-hydroxy-.
9036-19-5         Polyethylene glycol                3/29/96     5/29/96
                   mono(octyl)phenyl ether.

[[Page 71]]

 
       Alkylphenols, Alkylphenol ethoxylates, and Polyalkylphenols
------------------------------------------------------------------------
9063-89-2         Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl),           8/4/00     10/3/00
                   [alpha]-(octylphenyl)-[omega]-
                   hydroxy-.
11066-49-2        Isononylphenol (mixed isomers)     3/29/96     5/29/96
14938-35-3        4-Pentylphenol................     3/29/96     5/29/96
17404-66-9        4-(1-Methyloctyl)phenol.......     3/29/96     5/29/96
25154-52-3        Nonylphenol (mixed isomers)...     3/29/96     5/29/96
25401-86-9        Phenol, 2-hexadecyl-..........      8/4/00     10/3/00
25735-67-5        Phenol, 4-sec-pentyl-.........      8/4/00     10/3/00
26401-47-8        Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl),           8/4/00     10/3/00
                   [alpha]-(4-dodecylphenyl)-
                   [omega]-hydroxy-.
26401-74-1        Phenol, 2-sec-pentyl-.........      8/4/00     10/3/00
27157-66-0        Phenol, decyl-................      8/4/00     10/3/00
27178-34-3        tert-Butylphenol (mixed            3/29/96     5/29/96
                   isomers).
27193-28-8        (1,1,3,3-                          3/29/96     5/29/96
                   Tetramethylbutyl)phenol
                   (mixed isomers).
27193-86-8        Dodecylphenol (mixed isomers).     3/29/96     5/29/96
27985-70-2        (1-Methylheptyl)phenol (mixed      3/29/96     5/29/96
                   isomers).
29932-96-5        (1,1,3,3-                          3/29/96     5/29/96
                   Tetramethylbutyl)phenol
                   (mixed isomers).
30105-54-5        (1,1,3,3-                          3/29/96     5/29/96
                   Tetramethylbutyl)phenol
                   (mixed isomers).
31195-95-6        Isobutylphenol (mixed isomers)     3/29/96     5/29/96
54932-78-4        4-(2,2,3,3-                        3/29/96     5/29/96
                   Tetramethylbutyl)phenol.
59911-95-4        Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl),           8/4/00     10/3/00
                   [alpha]-(4-hexadecylphenyl)-
                   [omega]-hydroxy-.
61723-87-3        Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl),           8/4/00     10/3/00
                   [alpha]-(tridecylphenyl)-
                   [omega]-hydroxy-.
62744-41-6        (1,1,3,3-                          3/29/96     5/29/96
                   Tetramethylbutyl)phenol
                   (mixed isomers).
68081-86-7        Phenol, nonyl derivs..........      8/4/00     10/3/00
68784-24-7        Phenol, C18-30-alkyl derivs...      8/4/00     10/3/00
68891-67-8        Phenol, polypropene derivs....      8/4/00     10/3/00
68908-55-4        Phenol, polybutene derivs.....      8/4/00     10/3/00
68954-70-1        Phenol, polyethyl derivs......      8/4/00     10/3/00
68987-90-6        Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl),          3/29/96     5/29/96
                   [alpha]-(octylphenyl)-[omega]-
                   hydroxy-, branched.
70682-80-3        Phenol, tetradecyl-...........      8/4/00     10/3/00
71902-25-5        Phenol, octenylated...........      8/4/00     10/3/00
72624-02-3        Phenol, heptyl derivs.........      8/4/00     10/3/00
74499-35-7        Phenol, (tetrapropenyl)             8/4/00     10/3/00
                   derivs..
84605-25-4        Phenol, 1-methylhexyl derivs..      8/4/00     10/3/00
84852-15-3        Branched 4-nonylphenol (mixed      3/29/96     5/29/96
                   isomers).
91672-41-2        Phenol, 2-nonyl-, branched....      8/4/00     10/3/00
112375-88-9       Phenol, polyisobutylene             8/4/00     10/3/00
                   derivs..
112375-89-0       Phenol, poly(2,4,4-                 8/4/00     10/3/00
                   trimethylpentene) derivs.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            Alkyl phosphates
------------------------------------------------------------------------
78-40-0           Phosphoric acid, triethyl         10/29/90    12/27/90
                   ester.
78-42-2           Phosphoric acid, tris(2-          10/29/90    12/27/90
                   ethylhexyl)ester.
78-51-3           Ethanol, 2-butoxy-, phosphate     10/29/90    12/27/90
                   (3:1).
107-66-4          Phosphoric acid, dibutyl ester    10/29/90    12/27/90
126-71-6          Phosphoric acid, tris(2-          10/29/90    12/27/90
                   methylpropyl) ester.
126-73-8          Phosphoric acid tributyl ester    10/29/90    12/27/90
298-07-7          Phosphoric acid, bis(2-           10/29/90    12/27/90
                   ethylhexyl)ester.
812-00-0          Phosphoric acid, monomethyl       10/29/90    12/27/90
                   ester.
1070-03-7         Phosphoric acid, mono(2-          10/29/90    12/27/90
                   ethylhexyl)ester.
1498-51-7         Phosphorodichloridic acid,        10/29/90    12/27/90
                   ethylester.
1623-15-0         Phosphoric acid, monobutyl        10/29/90    12/27/90
                   ester.
1623-24-1         Phosphoric acid, mono(1-          10/29/90    12/27/90
                   methylethyl)ester.
2958-09-0         Phosphoric acid, monooctadecyl    10/29/90    12/27/90
                   ester.
3900-04-7         Phosphoric acid, monohexyl        10/29/90    12/27/90
                   ester.
3991-73-9         Phosphoric acid, monooctyl        10/29/90    12/27/90
                   ester.
7057-92-3         Phosphoric acid, didodecyl        10/29/90    12/27/90
                   ester.
7332-46-9         Ethanol, 2-(2-butoxyethoxy)-,     10/29/90    12/27/90
                   phosphate (3:1).
12645-31-7        Phosphoric acid, 2-ethylhexyl     10/29/90    12/27/90
                   ester.
12751-23-4        Phosphoric acid, dodecyl ester    10/29/90    12/27/90
27215-10-7        Phosphoric acid, diisooctyl       10/29/90    12/27/90
                   ester.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Brominated flame retardants
------------------------------------------------------------------------
87-10-5           Benzamide, 3,5-dibromo-N-(4-      10/29/90    12/27/90
                   bromophenyl)-2-hydroxy-.
87-83-2           Benzene, pentabromomethyl-....    10/29/90    12/27/90
87-84-3           Cyclohexane,1,2,3,4,5-            10/29/90    12/27/90
                   pentabromo-6-chloro-.
96-13-9           1-Propanol, 2,3-dibromo-......    10/29/90    12/27/90
593-60-2          Ethene, bromo-................    10/29/90    12/27/90
615-58-7          Phenol, 2,4-dibromo-..........    10/29/90    12/27/90
4162-45-2         Ethanol,2,2'-((1-                 10/29/90    12/27/90
                   methylethylidene)bis((2,6-
                   dibromo-4,1-
                   phenylene)oxy))bis-.
25327-89-3        Benzene, 1,1'-(1-                 10/29/90    12/27/90
                   methylethylidene)bis(3,5-
                   dibromo-4-(2-propenyloxy)-.
30554-72-4        Cyclohexane,                      10/29/90    12/27/90
                   tetrabromodichloro-.
30554-73-5        Cyclohexane, tribromotrichloro-   10/29/90    12/27/90
                   .

[[Page 72]]

 
                       Brominated flame retardants
------------------------------------------------------------------------
36483-57-5        1-Propanol, 2,2-dimethyl-,        10/29/90    12/27/90
                   tribromo deriv..
55205-38-4        2-Propenoic acid, (1-             10/29/90    12/27/90
                   methylethylidene)bis(2,6-
                   dibromo-4,1-phenylene) ester.
68955-41-9        Alkanes, C10-18, bromochloro-.    10/29/90    12/27/90
69882-11-7        Phenol, 2,4(or 2,6)-dibromo-,     10/29/90    12/27/90
                   homopolymer.
88497-56-7        Benzene, ethenyl-,                10/29/90    12/27/90
                   homopolymer, brominated.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          Chloralkyl phosphates
------------------------------------------------------------------------
34621-99-3        1,2-Ethanediyltetrakis(2-          6/14/93     8/12/93
                   chloro-1-methylethylene)
                   phosphate.
38051-10-4        2,2-Bis(chloromethyl)-1,3-         6/14/93     8/12/93
                   propanediyltetrakis(2-
                   chloroethyl) phosphate.
53461-82-8        Oxydi-2,1-ethanediyltetrakis(2-    6/14/93     8/12/93
                   chloroethyl) phosphate.
76649-15-5        2-Chloro-1-methylethylbis(2-
                   chloropropyl) phosphate.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             Cyanoacrylates
------------------------------------------------------------------------
137-05-3          2-Propenoic acid, 2-cyano-,        1/26/94     3/28/94
                   methyl ester.
1069-55-2         2-Propenoic acid, 2-cyano-,        1/26/94     3/28/94
                   isobutyl ester.
6197-30-4         2-Propenoic acid, 2-cyano-3,3-     1/26/94     3/28/94
                   diphenyl-, 2-ethylhexyl ester.
6606-65-1         2-Propenoic acid, 2-cyano-,        1/26/94     3/28/94
                   butyl ester.
7085-85-0         2-Propenoic acid, 2-cyano-,        1/26/94     3/28/94
                   ethyl ester.
7324-02-9         2-Propenoic acid, 2-cyano-, 2-     1/26/94     3/28/94
                   propenyl ester.
10586-17-1        2-Propenoic acid, 2-cyano-, 1-     1/26/94     3/28/94
                   methylethyl ester.
21982-43-4        2-Propenoic acid, 2-cyano-,        1/26/94     3/28/94
                   ethoxyethyl ester.
23023-91-8        2-Propenoic acid, 2-cyano-,        1/26/94     3/28/94
                   2,2,2-trifluoromethyl ester.
27816-23-5        2-Propenoic acid, 2-cyano-, 2-     1/26/94     3/28/94
                   methoxyethyl ester.
64992-16-1        Ethanaminium, 2-[[2-cyano-3-[4-    1/26/94     3/28/94
                   (diethylamino)phenyl]-1-oxo-2-
                   propenyl]oxy]-N,N,N-trimethyl-
                   , chloride.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            Indium Chemicals
------------------------------------------------------------------------
923-34-2          Triethylindium................     8/27/01    10/24/01
1303-11-3         Indium arsenide...............     8/27/01    10/24/01
1312-41-0         Indium antimonide.............     8/27/01    10/24/01
1312-43-2         Indium (III) oxide............     8/27/01    10/24/01
1312-45-4         Indium (III) telluride........     8/27/01    10/24/01
4194-69-8         Indium (III) citrate..........     8/27/01    10/24/01
7440-74-6         Indium........................     8/27/01    10/24/01
7783-52-0         Indium (III) fluoride.........     8/27/01    10/24/01
10025-82-8        Indium (III) chloride.........     8/27/01    10/24/01
12018-95-0        Copper indium diselenide......     8/27/01    10/24/01
12030-14-7        Indium (II) sulfide...........     8/27/01    10/24/01
12030-24-9        Indium (III) sulfide..........     8/27/01    10/24/01
12056-07-4        Indium selenide...............     8/27/01    10/24/01
12672-70-7        Indium chloride...............     8/27/01    10/24/01
12672-71-8        Indium oxide..................     8/27/01    10/24/01
13464-82-9        Indium (III) sulfate..........     8/27/01    10/24/01
13465-09-3        Indium (III) bromide..........     8/27/01    10/24/01
13465-10-6        Indium (I) chloride...........     8/27/01    10/24/01
13510-35-5        Indium (III) iodide...........     8/27/01    10/24/01
13709-93-8        Indium (III) borate...........     8/27/01    10/24/01
13770-61-1        Indium (III) nitrate..........     8/27/01    10/24/01
13966-94-4        Indium (I) iodide.............     8/27/01    10/24/01
14166-78-0        Indium (III) fluoride.........     8/27/01    10/24/01
14280-53-6        Indium (I) bromide............     8/27/01    10/24/01
14405-45-9        Indium tris(acetylacetonate)..     8/27/01    10/24/01
20661-21-6        Indium (III) hydroxide........     8/27/01    10/24/01
22398-80-7        Indium (I) phosphide..........     8/27/01    10/24/01
25114-58-3        Indium (III) acetate..........     8/27/01    10/24/01
25617-98-5        Indium nitride................     8/27/01    10/24/01
27765-48-6        Indium (III) tetrafluoroborate     8/27/01    10/24/01
50926-11-9        Indium tin oxide..............     8/27/01    10/24/01
55326-87-9        Indium hydroxide..............     8/27/01    10/24/01
66027-93-8        Indium (III) sulfamate........     8/27/01    10/24/01
66027-94-9        Hydroxybis(trifluoroacetato-       8/27/01    10/24/01
                   O)indium.
67816-06-2        Indium (III) 2-ethylhexanoate.     8/27/01    10/24/01
68310-35-0        Indium (III) neodecanoate.....     8/27/01    10/24/01
71243-84-0        Indium tin oxide                   8/27/01    10/24/01
                   (In1.69Sn0.1502O2.85).
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             IRIS Chemicals
------------------------------------------------------------------------
51-28-5           2,4 Dinitrophenol.............     9/30/91    11/27/91
95-65-8           3,4 Dinethylphenol............     9/30/91    11/27/91

[[Page 73]]

 
                               Isocyanates
------------------------------------------------------------------------
91-97-4           1,1'-Biphenyl, 4,4'-              10/29/90    12/27/90
                   diisocyanato-3,3'-dimethyl-.
100-28-7          Benzene, 1-isocyanato-4-nitro-    10/29/90    12/27/90
101-68-8          Benzene, 1,1'-methylenebis(4-     10/29/90    12/27/90
                   isocyanato-.
102-36-3          Benzene, 1,2-dichloro-4-          10/29/90    12/27/90
                   isocyanato-.
103-71-9          Benzene, isocyanato-..........    10/29/90    12/27/90
104-12-1          Benzene, 1-chloro-4-isocyanato-   10/29/90    12/27/90
                   .
104-49-4          Benzene, 1,4-diisocyanato-....    10/29/90    12/27/90
109-90-0          Ethane, isocyanato-...........    10/29/90    12/27/90
110-78-1          Propane, 1-isocyanato-........    10/29/90    12/27/90
111-36-4          Butane, 1-isocyanato-.........    10/29/90    12/27/90
112-96-9          Octadecane, 1-isocyanato-.....    10/29/90    12/27/90
123-61-5          Benzene, 1,3-diisocyanato-....    10/29/90    12/27/90
329-01-1          Benzene, 1-isocyanato-3-          10/29/90    12/27/90
                   (trifluoromethyl)-.
614-68-6          Benzene, 1-isocyanato-2-methyl-   10/29/90    12/27/90
                   .
622-58-2          Benzene, 1-isocyanato-4-methyl-   10/29/90    12/27/90
                   .
624-83-9          Methane, isocyanato-..........    10/29/90    12/27/90
1476-23-9         1-Propene, 3-isocyanato-......    10/29/90    12/27/90
2422-91-5         Benzene, 1,1',1''-                10/29/90    12/27/90
                   methylidynetris(4-isocyanato-.
2493-02-9         Benzene, 1-bromo-4-isocyanato-    10/29/90    12/27/90
2909-38-8         Benzene, 1-chloro-3-isocyanato-   10/29/90    12/27/90
                   .
2949-22-6         Acetic acid, isocyanato-,         10/29/90    12/27/90
                   ethyl ester.
3173-53-3         Cyclohexane, isocyanato-......    10/29/90    12/27/90
4035-89-6         Imidodicarbonic diamide,N,N',2-   10/29/90    12/27/90
                   tris(6-isocyanatohexyl)-.
4098-71-9         Cyclohexane, 5-isocyanato-1-      10/29/90    12/27/90
                   (isocyanatomethyl)-1,3,3-
                   trimethyl-.
4151-51-3         Phenol, 4-isocyanato-,            10/29/90    12/27/90
                   phosphorothioate (3:1)
                   (ester).
5124-30-1         Cyclohexane, 1,1'-                10/29/90    12/27/90
                   methylenebis(4-isocyanato-.
5873-54-1         Benzene, 1-isocyanato-2-((4-      10/29/90    12/27/90
                   isocyanatophenyl)methyl)-.
10031-75-1        Benzene, 1,1'-                    10/29/90    12/27/90
                   (diisocyanatomethylene)bis-.
15646-96-5        Hexane, 1,6-diisocyanato-2,4,4-   10/29/90    12/27/90
                   trimethyl-.
16938-22-0        Hexane, 1,6-diisocyanato-2,2,4-   10/29/90    12/27/90
                   trimethyl-.
25854-16-4        Benzene, bis(isocyanatomethyl)-   10/29/90    12/27/90
                   .
26447-40-5        Benzene, 1,1'-                    10/29/90    12/27/90
                   methylenebis(isocyanato-.
26603-40-7        1,3,5,-Triazine-2,4,6(1H.3H,5H-   10/29/90    12/27/90
                   trione, 1,3,5-tris(3-
                   isocyanatomethylphenyl)-.
26747-90-0        1,3-Diazetidine-2,4-dione, 1,3-   10/29/90    12/27/90
                   bis(3-isocyanatomethylphenyl)-
                   .
28178-42-9        Benzene, 2-isocyanato-1,3-        10/29/90    12/27/90
                   bis(1-methylethyl)-.
28556-81-2        Benzene, 2-isocyanato-1,3-        10/29/90    12/27/90
                   dimethyl-.
30674-80-7        2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-,2-    10/29/90    12/27/90
                   isocyanatoethyl ester.
34893-92-0        Benzene, 1,3-dichloro-5-          10/29/90    12/27/90
                   isocyanato-.
68239-06-5        Cyclohexane, 2-heptyl-3,4-        10/29/90    12/27/90
                   bis(9-isocyanatononyl)-1-
                   pentyl-.
73597-26-9        2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-   10/29/90    12/27/90
                   (((((5-isocyanato-1,3,3-
                   trimethylcyclohexyl)
                   methyl)amino)carbonyl)oxy)eth
                   yl ester.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                Methyl ethylene glycol ethers and esters
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3121-61-7         Ethylene glycol monomethyl         1/26/94     3/28/94
                   ether acrylate.
23783-42-8        Tetraethylene glycol               1/26/94     3/28/94
                   monomethyl ether.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         Nonylphenol ethoxylates
------------------------------------------------------------------------
7311-27-5         Ethanol, 2-[2-[2-[2-(p-            2/10/00     4/10/00
                   nonylphenoxy)ethoxy]ethoxy]et
                   hoxy]-.
9016-45-9         Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl),          2/10/00     4/10/00
                   alpha-(nonylphenyl)-omega-
                   hydroxy-.
20427-84-3        Ethanol, 2-[2-(p-                  2/10/00     4/10/00
                   nonylphenoxy)ethoxy]-.
20636-48-0        3,6,9,12-Tetraoxatetradecan-1-     2/10/00     4/10/00
                   ol, 14-(4-nonylphenoxy)-.
26027-38-3        Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl),          2/10/00     4/10/00
                   alpha-(4-nonylphenyl)-omega-
                   hydroxy-.
26264-02-8        3,6,9,12-Tetraoxatetradecan-1-     2/10/00     4/10/00
                   ol, 14-(nonylphenoxy)-.
26571-11-9        3,6,9,12,15,18,21,24-              2/10/00     4/10/00
                   Octaoxahexacosan-1-ol, 26-
                   (nonylphenoxy)-.
27176-93-8        Ethanol, 2-[2-                     2/10/00     4/10/00
                   (nonylphenoxy)ethoxy]-.
27177-01-1        3,6,9,12,15-Pentaoxaheptadecan-    2/10/00     4/10/00
                   1-ol, 17-(nonylphenoxy)-.
27177-05-5        3,6,9,12,15,18,21-                 2/10/00     4/10/00
                   Heptaoxatricosan-1-ol, 23-
                   (nonylphenoxy)-.
27177-08-8        3,6,9,12,15,18,21,24,27-           2/10/00     4/10/00
                   Nonaoxanonacosan-1-ol, 29-
                   (nonylphenoxy)-.
27986-36-3        Ethanol, 2-(nonylphenoxy)-....     2/10/00     4/10/00
37205-87-1        Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl),          2/10/00     4/10/00
                   alpha-(isononylphenyl)-omega-
                   hydroxy-.
51938-25-1        Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl),          2/10/00     4/10/00
                   alpha-(2-nonylphenyl)-omega-
                   hydroxy-.
65455-72-3        3,6,9,12,15,18,21,24,27-           2/10/00     4/10/00
                   Nonaoxanonacosan-1-ol, 29-
                   (isononylphenoxy)-.
68412-54-4        Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl),          2/10/00     4/10/00
                   alpha-(nonylphenyl)-omega-
                   hydroxy-, branched.
98113-10-1        NP9...........................     2/10/00     4/10/00
127087-87-0       Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl),          2/10/00     4/10/00
                   alpha-(4-nonylphenyl)-omega-
                   hydroxy-, branched.
152143-22-1       Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl),          2/10/00     4/10/00
                   alpha-(4-nonylphenyl)-omega-
                   hydroxy-, branched,
                   phosphates.

[[Page 74]]

 
           OSHA Chemicals in Need of Dermal Absorption Testing
------------------------------------------------------------------------
60-29-7           Ethyl ether...................     1/26/94     3/28/94
61-82-5           Amitrole......................     3/11/94     5/10/94
74-96-4           Ethyl bromide.................     3/11/94     5/10/94
75-05-8           Acetonitrile..................      8/4/95     10/3/95
75-12-7           Formamide.....................      8/4/95     10/3/95
75-15-0           Carbon disulfide..............     3/11/94     5/10/94
75-25-2           Bromoform.....................     3/11/94     5/10/94
75-34-3           1,1-Dichloroethane............     3/11/94     5/10/94
75-35-4           Vinylidene chloride...........      8/4/95     10/3/95
75-65-0           tert-Butyl alcohol............     1/26/94     3/28/94
76-22-2           Camphor.......................     1/26/94     3/28/94
77-73-6           Dicyclopentadiene.............      8/4/95     10/3/95
77-78-1           Dimethyl sulfate..............     3/11/94     5/10/94
78-59-1           Isophorone....................      8/4/95     10/3/95
78-87-5           Propylene dichloride..........      8/4/95     10/3/95
78-92-2           sec-Butyl alcohol.............     1/26/94     3/28/94
79-20-9           Methyl acetate................     1/26/94     3/28/94
79-46-9           2-Nitropropane................     3/11/94     5/10/94
88-72-2           o-Nitrotoluene................     3/11/94     5/10/94
89-72-5           o-sec-Butylphenol.............     3/11/94     5/10/94
90-04-0           o-Anisidine...................     3/11/94     5/10/94
91-20-3           Naphthalene...................      8/4/95     10/3/95
92-52-4           Biphenyl......................      8/4/95     10/3/95
95-13-6           Indene........................     3/11/94     5/10/94
95-49-8           o-Chlorotoluene...............     3/11/94     5/10/94
95-50-1           o-Dichlorobenzene.............      8/4/95     10/3/95
96-18-4           1,2,3-Trichloropropane........      8/4/95     10/3/95
97-77-8           Disulfiram....................     1/26/94     3/28/94
98-29-3           t-Butylcatechol...............      8/4/95     10/3/95
99-08-1           m-Nitrotoluene................      8/4/95     10/3/95
99-65-0           m-Dinitrobenzene..............     3/11/94     5/10/94
99-99-0           p-Nitrotoluene................      8/4/95     10/3/95
100-00-5          p-Nitrochlorobenzene..........     3/11/94     5/10/94
100-01-6          p-Nitroaniline................     3/11/94     5/10/94
100-44-7          Benzyl chloride...............     3/11/94     5/10/94
100-25-4          p-Dinitrobenzene..............     1/26/94     3/28/94
100-63-0          Phenylhydrazine...............     3/11/94     5/10/94
105-46-4          sec-Butyl acetate.............     1/26/94     3/28/94
106-42-3          p-Xylene......................     1/26/94     3/28/94
106-46-7          p-Dichlorobenzene.............      8/4/95     10/3/95
106-49-0          p-Toluidine...................     3/11/94     5/10/94
107-06-2          Ethylene dichloride...........      8/4/95     10/3/95
107-31-3          Methyl formate................     1/26/94     3/28/94
107-66-4          Dibutyl phosphate.............     1/26/94     3/28/94
108-03-2          1-Nitropropane................     1/26/94     3/28/94
108-44-1          m-Toluidine...................     3/11/94     5/10/94
108-87-2          Methylcyclohexane.............     1/26/94     3/28/94
108-90-7          Chlorobenzene.................     3/11/94     5/10/94
108-93-0          Cyclohexanol..................      8/4/95     10/3/95
109-66-0          Pentane.......................     1/26/94     3/28/94
109-99-9          Tetrahydrofuran...............     3/11/94     5/10/94
110-12-3          Methyl isoamyl ketone.........      8/4/95     10/3/95
110-83-8          Cyclohexene...................     1/26/94     3/28/94
111-84-2          Nonane........................     1/26/94     3/28/94
120-80-9          Catechol......................      8/4/95     10/3/95
121-14-2          2,4-Dinitrotoluene............     3/11/94     5/10/94
121-69-7          Dimethylaniline...............      8/4/95     10/3/95
122-39-4          Diphenylamine.................     3/11/94     5/10/94
123-42-2          Diacetone alcohol.............      8/4/95     10/3/95
123-92-2          Isoamyl acetate...............     1/26/94     3/28/94
126-99-8          beta-Chloroprene..............     3/11/94     5/10/94
127-19-5          Dimethyl acetamide............      8/4/95     10/3/95
142-82-5          Heptane (n-Heptane)...........     1/26/94     3/28/94
150-76-5          p-Methoxyphenol...............     3/11/94     5/10/94
287-92-3          Cyclopentane..................     1/26/94     3/28/94
528-29-0          o-Dinitrobenzene..............     3/11/94     5/10/94
532-27-4          a-Chloroacetophenone..........     1/26/94     3/28/94
540-59-0          1,2-Dichloroethylene..........     3/11/94     5/10/94
540-88-5          tert-Butyl acetate............     1/26/94     3/28/94

[[Page 75]]

 
                         Nonylphenol ethoxylates
------------------------------------------------------------------------
542-92-7          Cyclopentadiene...............      8/4/95     10/3/95
626-17-5          m-Phthalodinitrile............     3/11/94     5/10/94
628-63-7          n-Amyl acetate................     1/26/94     3/28/94
768-52-5          N-Isopropylaniline............     3/11/94     5/10/94
1300-73-8         Xylidine......................     3/11/94     5/10/94
6423-43-4         Propylene glycol dinitrate....     3/11/94     5/10/94
7631-90-5         Sodium bisulfite..............     1/26/94     3/28/94
7681-57-4         Sodium metabisulfite..........     1/26/94     3/28/94
25013-15-4        Vinyl toluene.................     3/11/94     5/10/94
34590-94-8        Dipropylene glycol methyl           8/4/95     10/3/95
                   ether.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Propylene glycol ethers and esters
------------------------------------------------------------------------
108-65-6          Propylene glycol monomethyl        1/26/94     3/28/94
                   ether acetate.
110-98-5          Dipropylene glycol............     1/26/94     3/28/94
770-35-4          1-Phenoxy-2-propanol..........     1/26/94     3/28/94
20324-32-7        1-(2-Methoxy-1-methylethoxy)-2-    1/26/94     3/28/94
                   propanol.
20324-33-8        Tripropylene glycol methyl         1/26/94     3/28/94
                   ether.
28677-93-2        Methoxy-1-propanol............     1/26/94     3/28/94
29387-86-8        Propylene glycol monobutyl         1/26/94     3/28/94
                   ether.
29911-28-2        Dipropylene glycol butyl ether     1/26/94     3/28/94
42978-66-5        Tripropylene glycol diacrylate     1/26/94     3/28/94
57018-52-7        Propylene glycol mono-tert-        1/26/94     3/28/94
                   butyl ether.
88917-22-0        Dipropylene glycol monomethyl      1/26/94     3/28/94
                   ether acetate.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              Pyridinamines
462-08-8          3-Pyridinamine................      1/6/05      3/7/05
504-24-5          4-Pyridinamine................      1/6/05      3/7/05
504-29-0          2-Pyridinamine................      1/6/05      3/7/05
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                Siloxanes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
107-46-0          Hexamethyldisiloxane..........    10/12/93     2/28/94
107-50-6          Tetradecamethylcycloheptasilox    10/12/93     2/28/94
                   ane.
107-51-7          Octamethyltrisiloxane.........    10/12/93     2/28/94
107-52-8          Tetradecamethylhexasiloxane...    10/12/93     2/28/94
107-53-9          Tetracosamethylundecasiloxane.    10/12/93     2/28/94
141-62-8          Decamethyltetrasiloxane.......    10/12/93     2/28/94
141-63-9          Dodecamethylpentasiloxane.....    10/12/93     2/28/94
540-97-6          Dodecamethylcyclohexasiloxane.    10/12/93     2/28/94
541-01-5          Hexadecamethylheptasiloxane...    10/12/93     2/28/94
541-02-6          Decamethylcyclopentasiloxane..    10/12/93     2/28/94
541-05-9          Hexamethylcyclotrisiloxane....    10/12/93     2/28/94
546-56-5          Octaphenylcyclotetrasiloxane..    10/12/93     2/28/94
556-67-2          Octamethylcyclotetrasiloxane..    10/12/93     2/28/94
556-68-3          Hexadecamethylcyclooctasiloxan    10/12/93     2/28/94
                   e.
556-69-4          Octadecamethyloctasiloxane....    10/12/93     2/28/94
556-70-7          Docosamethyldecasiloxane......    10/12/93     2/28/94
556-71-8          Octadecamethylcyclononasiloxan    10/12/93     2/28/94
                   e.
999-97-3          Hexamethyldisilazane..........    10/12/93     2/28/94
2370-88-9         Tetramethylcyclotetrasiloxane.    10/12/93     2/28/94
2374-14-3         Trifluoropropylmethylcyclotris    10/12/93     2/28/94
                   iloxane.
2471-08-1         Hexacosamethyldodecasiloxane..    10/12/93     2/28/94
2471-09-2         Octacosamethyltridecasiloxane.    10/12/93     2/28/94
2471-10-5         Triacontamethyltetradecasiloxa    10/12/93     2/28/94
                   ne.
2471-11-6         Dotriacontamethylpentadecasilo    10/12/93     2/28/94
                   xane.
2554-06-5         Methylvinylcyclosiloxane......    10/12/93     2/28/94
2627-95-4         Tetramethyldivinyldisiloxane..    10/12/93     2/28/94
2652-13-3         Eicosamethylnonasiloxane......    10/12/93     2/28/94
70131-67-8        Siloxanes and silicones, di-      10/12/93     2/28/94
                   Me, hydroxy-terminated.
9004-73-3         Methylpolysiloxane............    10/12/93     2/28/94
18766-38-6        Docosamethylcycloundecasiloxan    10/12/93     2/28/94
                   e.
18772-36-6        Eicosamethylcyclodecasiloxane.    10/12/93     2/28/94
18844-04-7        Hexatriacontamethylheptadecasi    10/12/93     2/28/94
                   loxane.
18919-94-3        Tetracosamethylcyclododecasilo    10/12/93     2/28/94
                   xane.
23523-12-8        Hexatriacontamethylcyclooctade    10/12/93     2/28/94
                   casiloxane.
23523-14-0        Triacontamethylcyclopentadecas    10/12/93     2/28/94
                   iloxane.
23732-94-7        Hexacosamethylcyclotridecasilo    10/12/93     2/28/94
                   xane.
36938-50-8        Tetratriacontamethyl              10/12/93     2/28/94
                   hexadecasiloxane.
36938-52-0        Octatriacontamethyl               10/12/93     2/28/94
                   octadecasiloxane.
63148-62-9        Dimethyl silicones and            10/12/93     2/28/94
                   siloxanes.

[[Page 76]]

 
                                Siloxanes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67762-90-7        Dimethyl silicones and            10/12/93     2/28/94
                   siloxane, reaction products
                   with silica.
67762-94-1        Dimethylmethylvinylsiloxane...    10/12/93     2/28/94
68037-59-2        Dimethylhydropolylsiloxane....    10/12/93     2/28/94
68037-74-1        Dimethylpolysiloxanes.........    10/12/93     2/28/94
68083-14-7        Dimethyldiphenylsiloxane......    10/12/93     2/28/94
69430-24-6        Cyclopolydimethylsiloxane.....    10/12/93     2/28/94
115361-68-7       Dimethylmethyl 3,3,3-             10/12/93     2/28/94
                   trifluoropropyl siloxane.
149050-40-8       Octacosamethylcyclotetradecasi    10/12/93     2/28/94
                   loxane.
150026-95-2       Dotriacontamethylcyclohexadeca    10/12/93     2/28/94
                   siloxane.
150026-96-3       Tetratriacontamethylcyclohepta    10/12/93     2/28/94
                   decasiloxane.
150026-97-4       Octatriacontamethylcyclononade    10/12/93     2/28/94
                   casiloxane.
150026-98-5       Tetracontamethylcycloeicosasil    10/12/93     2/28/94
                   oxane.
150026-99-6       Tetracontamethylnonadecasiloxa    10/12/93     2/28/94
                   ne.
150027-00-2       Dotetracontamethyleicosasiloxa    10/12/93     2/28/94
                   ne.
not available     Polymethyloctadecylsiloxane...    10/12/93     2/28/94
------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Substantially produced chemicals in need of subchronic tests
------------------------------------------------------------------------
80-51-3           p,p'-                              9/30/91    11/27/91
                   Oxybis(benzenesulfonylhydrazi
                   de).
81-84-5           Naphthalenedicarboxylic            9/30/91    11/27/91
                   anhydride.
84-51-5           2-Ethylanthraquinone..........     9/30/91    11/27/91
87-02-5           7-Amino-4-hydroxy-2-               9/30/91    11/27/91
                   naphthalenesulfonic acid.
90-15-3           1-Naphthol....................     9/30/91    11/27/91
92-70-6           3-Hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid....     9/30/91    11/27/91
94-28-0           Triethylene glycol bis(2-          9/30/91    11/27/91
                   ethylhexanoate).
95-32-9           2-(4-Morpholinyldithio)-           9/30/91    11/27/91
                   benzothiazole.
97-88-1           N-Butyl methacrylate..........     9/30/91    11/27/91
98-48-6           1,3-Benzenedisulfonic Acid....     9/30/91    11/27/91
99-54-7           3,4-Dichloronitrobenzene......     9/30/91    11/27/91
99-63-8           Isophthaloyl chloride.........     9/30/91    11/27/91
100-20-9          Terephthaloyl chloride........     9/30/91    11/27/91
100-29-8          4-Ethoxynitrobenzene..........     9/30/91    11/27/91
102-01-2          Acetoacetanilide..............     9/30/91    11/27/91
106-31-0          Butyric anhydride.............     9/30/91    11/27/91
106-63-8          Isobutyl acrylate.............     9/30/91    11/27/91
111-96-6          Diethylene glycol dimethyl         9/30/91    11/27/91
                   ether.
112-15-2          Ethanol, 2-(2-ethoxyethoxy)-,      9/30/91    11/27/91
                   acetate.
116-81-4          Bromamine acid................     9/30/91    11/27/91
119-33-5          4-Methyl-2-nitro-phenol.......     9/30/91    11/27/91
121-60-8          4-(Acetylamino)benzenesulfonyl     9/30/91    11/27/91
                   chloride.
123-54-6          2,4-Pentanedione..............     9/30/91    11/27/91
123-62-6          Propanoic anhydride...........     9/30/91    11/27/91
142-16-5          Bis(2-ethylhexyl)-2-               9/30/91    11/27/91
                   butenedioate.
311-89-7          Perfluorotributylamine........     9/30/91    11/27/91
355-42-0          Perfluoro-N-hexane............     9/30/91    11/27/91
594-42-3          Trichloromethanesulfenyl           9/30/91    11/27/91
                   chloride.
616-21-7          1,2-Dichlorobutane............     9/30/91    11/27/91
626-17-5          1,3-Dicyanobenzene............     9/30/91    11/27/91
760-23-6          3,4-Dichlorobutene............     9/30/91    11/27/91
929-06-6          2-(2-Aminoethoxy)-ethanol.....     6/30/92     9/28/92
1047-16-1         Quinacridone..................     9/30/91    11/27/91
1111-78-0         Ammonium carbamate............     9/30/91    11/27/91
3089-11-0         Hexa(methoxymethyl) melamine..     9/30/91    11/27/91
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                Sulphones
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67-71-0           Dimethylsulfone...............     9/30/91    11/27/91
77-79-2           3-Sulfolene...................     9/30/91    11/27/91
80-07-9           Sulfonyl bis-(4-chlorobenzene)     9/30/91    11/27/91
80-08-0           4,4'-Diaminodiphenyl sulfone..     9/30/91    11/27/91
80-09-1           Bisphenol S...................     9/30/91    11/27/91
98-30-6           2-Amino-4-                         9/30/91    11/27/91
                   (methylsulfonyl)phenol.
126-33-0          Sulfolane.....................     9/30/91    11/27/91
127-63-9          Diphenylsulfone...............     9/30/91    11/27/91
2580-77-0         2,2'-Sulfonyl bis-ethanol.....     9/30/91    11/27/91
3278-22-6         1,1'-[Methylene                    9/30/91    11/27/91
                   bis(sulfonyl)]bisethene.
5246-57-1         2-[(3-                             9/30/91    11/27/91
                   Aminophenyl)sulfonyl]ethanol.
16588-67-3        3-[N-Ethyl-4-[[6-                  9/30/91    11/27/91
                   (methylsulfonyl)-2-
                   benzothiazolyl] azo]-m-
                   toluidino]- propionitrile.
17557-67-4        6-(Methylsulfonyl)-2-              9/30/91    11/27/91
                   benzothiazolamine.
17601-96-6        2-Amino-4-[(2-hydroxyethyl)        9/30/91    11/27/91
                   sulfonyl]phenol.
17688-68-5        4-Phenylthiomorpholine, 1,1-       9/30/91    11/27/91
                   dioxide.

[[Page 77]]

 
                                Sulphones
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17741-62-7        4-[4-[(2,6-Dichloro-4-             9/30/91    11/27/91
                   nitrophenyl)
                   azo]phenyl]thiomorpholine,
                   1,1-dioxide-.
18760-44-6        3-                                 9/30/91    11/27/91
                   (Decyloxy)tetrahydrothiophene
                   1,1-dioxide.
20018-09-1        1-(Diiodomethyl) sulfonyl-4-       9/30/91    11/27/91
                   methyl benzene.
26750-50-5        1,1'-                              9/30/91    11/27/91
                   [Oxybis(methylenesulfonyl)]
                   bisethene.
36724-43-3        2,2'-                              9/30/91    11/27/91
                   [Oxybis(methylenesulfonyl)]bi
                   sethanol.
41123-59-5        1,1'-                              9/30/91    11/27/91
                   [Methylenebis(sulfonyl)]bis-2-
                   chloroethane.
41123-69-7        2,2'-                              9/30/91    11/27/91
                   [Methylenebis(sulfonyl)]biset
                   hanol.
41687-30-3        2-[(3-                             9/30/91    11/27/91
                   Nitrophenyl)sulfonyl]ethanol.
52218-35-6        2-[(6-Amino-2-                     9/30/91    11/27/91
                   naphthalenyl)sulfonyl]ethanol.
53061-10-2        1,1'-                              9/30/91    11/27/91
                   [Oxybis(methylenesulfonyl)]bi
                   s-2-chloroethane.
63134-33-8        4-[[4-                             9/30/91    11/27/91
                   (Phenylmethoxy)phenyl]sulfony
                   l]phenol.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           Tungsten compounds
------------------------------------------------------------------------
1314-35-8         Tungsten oxide (WO3)..........      1/6/05      3/7/05
7440-33-7         Tungsten......................      1/6/05      3/7/05
7783-03-1         Tungstate (WO4\2-\),                1/6/05      3/7/05
                   dihydrogen, (T-4)-.
7783-82-6         Tungsten fluoride (WF6), (OC-6-     1/6/05      3/7/05
                   11)-.
7790-60-5         Tungstate (WO4\2-\),                1/6/05      3/7/05
                   dipotassium, (T-4)-.
7790-85-4         Cadmium tungsten oxide (CdWO4)      1/6/05      3/7/05
10213-10-2        Tungstate (WO4\2-\), disodium,      1/6/05      3/7/05
                   dihydrate, (T-4)-.
11105-11-6        Tungsten oxide (WO3), hydrate.      1/6/05      3/7/05
11120-01-7        Sodium tungsten oxide.........      1/6/05      3/7/05
11120-25-5        Tungstate (W12(OH)2O40\10-\),       1/6/05      3/7/05
                   decaammonium.
12027-38-2        Tungstate(4-),[.mu.12-              1/6/05      3/7/05
                   [orthosilicato(4-)-
                   .kappa.O:.kappa.O:.kappa.O:
                   .kappa.O'.kappa.O'.kappa.O'
                   .kappa.O':.kappa.O'
                   :.kappa.O'
                   :.kappa.O'':.kappa.O''
                   :.kappa.O'']]tetracosa- .mu.-
                   oxododecaoxododeca-,
                   tetrahydrogen.
12028-48-7        Tungstate (W12(OH)2O38\6-\),        1/6/05      3/7/05
                   hexaammonium.
12036-22-5        Tungsten oxide (WO2)..........      1/6/05      3/7/05
12067-99-1        Tungsten hydroxide oxide            1/6/05      3/7/05
                   phosphate.
12138-09-9        Tungsten sulfide (WS2)........      1/6/05      3/7/05
12141-67-2        Tungstate (W12(OH)2O38\6-\),        1/6/05      3/7/05
                   hexasodium.
13283-01-7        Tungsten chloride (WCl6), (OC-      1/6/05      3/7/05
                   6-11)-.
13472-45-2        Tungstate (WO4\2-\), disodium,      1/6/05      3/7/05
                   (T-4)-.
14040-11-0        Tungsten carbonyl (W(CO)6),         1/6/05      3/7/05
                   (OC-6-11)-.
23321-70-2        Tungsten oxide (WO3),               1/6/05      3/7/05
                   dihydrate.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           Vanadium compounds
------------------------------------------------------------------------
1314-34-7         Vanadium oxide (V2O3)              7/11/03      9/9/03
                   [Vanadium trioxide].
1314-62-1         Vanadium oxide (V2O5)              7/11/03      9/9/03
                   [Vanadium pentoxide].
1686-22-2         Vanadium, triethoxyoxo-, (T-4)-    7/11/03      9/9/03
                    [Triethyl orthovanadate].
3153-26-2         Vanadium, oxobis (2,4-             7/11/03      9/9/03
                   pentanedionato-
                   .kappa.O,.kappa.O')-, (SP-5-
                   21)-.
5588-84-1         Vanadium, oxotris(2-               7/11/03      9/9/03
                   propanolato)-, (T-4)-
                   [Vanadium triisopropoxide
                   oxide].
7440-62-2         Vanadium......................     7/11/03      9/9/03
7632-51-1         Vanadium chloride (VCl4), (T-      7/11/03      9/9/03
                   4)- [Vanadium tetrachloride].
7718-98-1         Vanadium chloride (VCl3)           7/11/03      9/9/03
                   [Vanadium trichloride].
7727-18-6         Vanadium, trichlorooxo-, (T-4)-    7/11/03      9/9/03
                    [Vanadium oxytrichloride].
7803-55-6         Vanadate (VO31-), ammonium         7/11/03      9/9/03
                   [Ammonium metavanadate].
10049-16-8        Vanadium fluoride (VF4)            7/11/03      9/9/03
                   [Vanadium tetrafluoride].
10213-09-9        Vanadium, dichlorooxo-             7/11/03      9/9/03
                   [Vanadyl dichloride].
10580-52-6        Vanadium chloride (VCl2)           7/11/03      9/9/03
                   [Vanadium dichloride].
11099-11-9        Vanadium oxide [Polyvanadic        7/11/03      9/9/03
                   acid].
11115-67-6        Ammonium vanadium oxide.......     7/11/03      9/9/03
11130-21-5        Vanadium carbide..............     7/11/03      9/9/03
12007-37-3        Vanadium boride (VB2).........     7/11/03      9/9/03
12035-98-2        Vanadium oxide (VO)...........     7/11/03      9/9/03
12036-21-4        Vanadium oxide (VO2)..........     7/11/03      9/9/03
12070-10-9        Vanadium carbide (VC).........     7/11/03      9/9/03
12083-48-6        Vanadium, dichlorobis (.eta.5-     7/11/03      9/9/03
                   2,4-cyclopentadien-1-yl)-.
12166-27-7        Vanadium sulfide (VS).........     7/11/03      9/9/03
12439-96-2        Vanadium, oxo[sulfato(2-)-         7/11/03      9/9/03
                   .kappa.O]-, pentahydrate
                   [Vanadyl sulfate (VOSO4),
                   pentahydrate].
12604-58-9        Vanadium alloy, base, V,C,Fe       7/11/03      9/9/03
                   (Ferrovanadium).
13470-26-3        Vanadium bromide (VBr3).......     7/11/03      9/9/03
13476-99-8        Vanadium, tris(2,4-                7/11/03      9/9/03
                   pentanedionato-
                   .kappa.O,.kappa.O')-, (OC-6-
                   11)- [Vanadium
                   tris(acetylacetonate)].
13497-94-4        Silver vanadium oxide (AgVO3).     7/11/03      9/9/03
13517-26-5        Sodium vanadium oxide              7/11/03      9/9/03
                   (Na4V2O7) [Sodium
                   pyrovanadate].
13718-26-8        Vanadate (VO31-), sodium           7/11/03      9/9/03
                   [Sodium metavanadate].
13721-39-6        Sodium vanadium oxide (Na3VO4)     7/11/03      9/9/03
                   [Sodium orthovanadate].

[[Page 78]]

 
                           Vanadium compounds
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13769-43-2        Vanadate (VO31-), potassium        7/11/03      9/9/03
                   [Potassium metavanadate].
13930-88-6        Vanadium, oxo[29H,31H-             7/11/03      9/9/03
                   phthalocyaninato(2-)-
                   .kappa.N29,.kappa.N30,.kappa.
                   N31,.kappa.N32]-, (SP-5-12)-.
14059-33-7        Bismuth vanadium oxide (BiVO4)     7/11/03      9/9/03
19120-62-8        Vanadium, tris(2-methyl-1-         7/11/03      9/9/03
                   propanolato)oxo-, (T-4)-
                   [Isobutyl orthovanadate].
24646-85-3        Vanadium nitride (VN).........     7/11/03      9/9/03
27774-13-6        Vanadium, oxo[sulfato(2-)-         7/11/03      9/9/03
                   .kappa.O]- [Vanadyl sulfate].
30486-37-4        Vanadium hydroxide oxide           7/11/03      9/9/03
                   (V(OH)2O).
39455-80-6        Ammonium sodium vanadium oxide     7/11/03      9/9/03
53801-77-7        Bismuth vanadium oxide........     7/11/03      9/9/03
65232-89-5        Vanadium hydroxide oxide           7/11/03      9/9/03
                   phosphate.
68130-18-7        Vanadium hydroxide oxide           7/11/03      9/9/03
                   phosphate (V6(OH)3O3(PO4)7).
68815-09-8        Naphthenic acids, vanadium         7/11/03      9/9/03
                   salts.
68990-29-4        Balsams, copaiba, sulfurized,      7/11/03      9/9/03
                   vanadium salts.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Voluntary HPV Challenge Program orphan (unsponsored) chemicals
------------------------------------------------------------------------
62-56-6           Thiourea......................   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
77-76-9           Propane, 2,2-dimethoxy-.......   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
81-07-2           1,2-Benzisothiazol-3(2H)-one,    September    November
                   1,1-dioxide.                     29, 2006    28, 2006
81-16-3           1-Naphthalenesulfonic acid, 2-   September    November
                   amino-.                          29, 2006    28, 2006
81-84-5           1H,3H-Naphtho[1,8-cd]pyran-1,3-  September    November
                   dione.                           29, 2006    28, 2006
83-41-0           Benzene, 1,2-dimethyl-3-nitro-   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
84-69-5           1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid,    September    November
                   bis(2-methylpropyl) ester.       29, 2006    28, 2006
85-40-5           1H-Isoindole-1,3(2H)-dione,      September    November
                   3a,4,7,7a-tetrahydro-.           29, 2006    28, 2006
91-68-9           Phenol, 3-(diethylamino)-.....   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
94-96-2           1,3-Hexanediol, 2-ethyl-......   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
96-22-0           3-Pentanone...................   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
97-00-7           Benzene, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitro-   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
98-09-9           Benzenesulfonyl chloride......   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
98-16-8           Benzenamine, 3-                  September    November
                   (trifluoromethyl)-.              29, 2006    28, 2006
98-56-6           Benzene, 1-chloro-4-             September    November
                   (trifluoromethyl)-.              29, 2006    28, 2006
101-34-8          9-Octadecenoic acid, 12-         September    November
                   (acetyloxy)-, 1,2,3-             29, 2006    28, 2006
                   propanetriyl ester,
                   (9Z,9'Z,9'',12R,12'R,12'')-.
104-66-5          Benzene, 1,1'-[1,2-              September    November
                   ethanediylbis(oxy)]bis-.         29, 2006    28, 2006
104-93-8          Benzene, 1-methoxy-4-methyl-..   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
107-39-1          1-Pentene, 2,4,4-trimethyl-...   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
107-40-4          2-Pentene, 2,4,4-trimethyl-...   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
110-18-9          1,2-Ethanediamine, N,N,N',N'-    September    November
                   tetramethyl-.                    29, 2006    28, 2006
110-33-8          Hexanedioic acid, dihexyl        September    November
                   ester.                           29, 2006    28, 2006
111-44-4          Ethane, 1,1'-oxybis[2-chloro-.   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
111-85-3          Octane, 1-chloro-.............   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
111-91-1          Ethane, 1,1'-                    September    November
                   [methylenebis(oxy)]bis[2-        29, 2006    28, 2006
                   chloro-.
118-90-1          Benzoic acid, 2-methyl-.......   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
119-33-5          Phenol, 4-methyl-2-nitro-.....   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006

[[Page 79]]

 
                           Vanadium compounds
------------------------------------------------------------------------
121-69-7          Benzenamine, N,N-dimethyl-....   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
121-82-4          1,3,5-Triazine, hexahydro-       September    November
                   1,3,5-trinitro-.                 29, 2006    28, 2006
124-63-0          Methanesulfonyl chloride......   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
127-68-4          Benzenesulfonic acid, 3-nitro-   September    November
                   , sodium salt.                   29, 2006    28, 2006
131-57-7          Methanone, (2-hydroxy-4-         September    November
                   methoxyphenyl)phenyl-.           29, 2006    28, 2006
137-20-2          Ethanesulfonic acid, 2-          September    November
                   [methyl[(9Z)-1-oxo-9-            29, 2006    28, 2006
                   octadecenyl]amino]-, sodium
                   salt.
138-25-0          1,3-Benzenedicarboxylic acid,    September    November
                   5-sulfo-, 1,3-dimethyl ester.    29, 2006    28, 2006
139-40-2          1,3,5-Triazine-2,4-diamine, 6-   September    November
                   chloro-N,N'-bis(1-               29, 2006    28, 2006
                   methylethyl)-.
140-93-2          Carbonodithioic acid, O-(1-      September    November
                   methylethyl) ester, sodium       29, 2006    28, 2006
                   salt.
142-73-4          Glycine, N-(carboxymethyl)-...   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
330-54-1          Urea, N'-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-   September    November
                   N,N-dimethyl-.                   29, 2006    28, 2006
460-00-4          Benzene, 1-bromo-4-fluoro-....   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
506-51-4          1-Tetracosanol................   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
506-52-5          1-Hexacosanol.................   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
513-74-6          Carbamodithioic acid,            September    November
                   monoammonium salt.               29, 2006    28, 2006
515-40-2          Benzene, (2-chloro-1,1-          September    November
                   dimethylethyl)-.                 29, 2006    28, 2006
529-33-9          1-Naphthalenol, 1,2,3,4-         September    November
                   tetrahydro-.                     29, 2006    28, 2006
529-34-0          1(2H)-Naphthalenone, 3,4-        September    November
                   dihydro-.                        29, 2006    28, 2006
542-92-7          1,3-Cyclopentadiene...........   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
557-61-9          1-Octacosanol.................   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
563-72-4          Ethanedioic acid, calcium salt   September    November
                   (1:1).                           29, 2006    28, 2006
590-19-2          1,2-Butadiene.................   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
592-45-0          1,4-Hexadiene.................   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
598-72-1          Propanoic acid, 2-bromo-......   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
617-94-7          Benzenemethanol,                 September    November
                   .alpha.,.alpha.-dimethyl-.       29, 2006    28, 2006
628-13-7          Pyridine, hydrochloride.......   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
628-96-6          1,2-Ethanediol, dinitrate.....   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
645-62-5          2-Hexenal, 2-ethyl-...........   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
693-95-8          Thiazole, 4-methyl-...........   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
756-80-9          Phosphorodithioic acid, O,O-     September    November
                   dimethyl ester.                  29, 2006    28, 2006
870-72-4          Methanesulfonic acid, hydroxy-   September    November
                   , monosodium salt.               29, 2006    28, 2006
928-72-3          Glycine, N-(carboxymethyl)-,     September    November
                   disodium salt.                   29, 2006    28, 2006
939-97-9          Benzaldehyde, 4-(1,1-            September    November
                   dimethylethyl)-.                 29, 2006    28, 2006
1000-82-4         Urea, (hydroxymethyl)-........   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
1002-69-3         Decane, 1-chloro-.............   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006

[[Page 80]]

 
                           Vanadium compounds
------------------------------------------------------------------------
1111-78-0         Carbamic acid, monoammonium      September    November
                   salt.                            29, 2006    28, 2006
1401-55-4         Tannins.......................   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
1445-45-0         Ethane, 1,1,1-trimethoxy-.....   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
1498-51-7         Phosphorodichloridic acid,       September    November
                   ethyl ester.                     29, 2006    28, 2006
1738-25-6         Propanenitrile, 3-               September    November
                   (dimethylamino)-.                29, 2006    28, 2006
1912-24-9         1,3,5-Triazine-2,4-diamine, 6-   September    November
                   chloro-N-ethyl-N'-(1-            29, 2006    28, 2006
                   methylethyl)-.
2152-64-9         Benzenamine, N-phenyl-4-[[4-     September    November
                   (phenylamino)phenyl][4-          29, 2006    28, 2006
                   (phenylimino)-2,5-
                   cyclohexadien-1-
                   ylidene]methyl]-,
                   monohydrochloride.
2210-79-9         Oxirane, [(2-                    September    November
                   methylphenoxy)methyl]-.          29, 2006    28, 2006
2372-45-4         1-Butanol, sodium salt........   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
2409-55-4         Phenol, 2-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-   September    November
                   4-methyl-.                       29, 2006    28, 2006
2425-54-9         Tetradecane, 1-chloro-........   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
2494-89-5         Ethanol, 2-[(4-                  September    November
                   aminophenyl)sulfonyl]-,          29, 2006    28, 2006
                   hydrogen sulfate (ester).
2524-03-0         Phosphorochloridothioic acid,    September    November
                   O,O-dimethyl ester.              29, 2006    28, 2006
2691-41-0         1,3,5,7-Tetrazocine, octahydro-  September    November
                   1,3,5,7-tetranitro-.             29, 2006    28, 2006
2814-20-2         4(1H)-Pyrimidinone, 6-methyl-2-  September    November
                   (1-methylethyl)-.                29, 2006    28, 2006
2905-62-6         Benzoyl chloride, 3,5-dichloro-  September    November
                   .                                29, 2006    28, 2006
2915-53-9         2-Butenedioic acid (2Z)-,        September    November
                   dioctyl ester.                   29, 2006    28, 2006
3039-83-6         Ethenesulfonic acid, sodium      September    November
                   salt.                            29, 2006    28, 2006
3132-99-8         Benzaldehyde, 3-bromo-........   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
3386-33-2         Octadecane, 1-chloro-.........   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
3779-63-3         1,3,5-Triazine-2,4,6(1H,3H,5H)-  September    November
                   trione, 1,3,5-tris(6-            29, 2006    28, 2006
                   isocyanatohexyl)-.
3965-55-7         1,3-Benzenedicarboxylic acid,    September    November
                   5-sulfo-, 1,3-dimethyl ester,    29, 2006    28, 2006
                   sodium salt.
4035-89-6         Imidodicarbonic diamide,         September    November
                   N,N',2-tris(6-                   29, 2006    28, 2006
                   isocyanatohexyl)-.
4170-30-3         2-Butenal.....................   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
4316-73-8         Glycine, N-methyl-, monosodium   September    November
                   salt.                            29, 2006    28, 2006
4860-03-1         Hexadecane, 1-chloro-.........   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
5026-74-4         Oxiranemethanamine, N-[4-        September    November
                   (oxiranylmethoxy)phenyl]-N-      29, 2006    28, 2006
                   (oxiranylmethyl)-.
5216-25-1         Benzene, 1-chloro-4-             September    November
                   (trichloromethyl)-.              29, 2006    28, 2006
5460-09-3         2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic        September    November
                   acid, 4-amino-5-hydroxy-,        29, 2006    28, 2006
                   monosodium salt.
5915-41-3         1,3,5-Triazine-2,4-diamine, 6-   September    November
                   chloro-N-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-    29, 2006    28, 2006
                   N'-ethyl-.
6473-13-8         2-Naphthalenesulfonic acid, 6-   September    November
                   [(2,4-diaminophenyl)azo]-3-      29, 2006    28, 2006
                   [[4-[[4-[[7-[(2,4-
                   diaminophenyl)azo]-1-hydroxy-
                   3-sulfo-2-
                   naphthalenyl]azo]phenyl]amino
                   ]-3-sulfophenyl]azo]-4-
                   hydroxy-, trisodium salt.
7795-95-1         1-Octanesulfonyl chloride.....   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
8001-58-9         Creosote......................   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
10265-69-7        Glycine, N-phenyl-, monosodium   September    November
                   salt.                            29, 2006    28, 2006
13749-94-5        Ethanimidothioic acid, N-        September    November
                   hydroxy-, methyl ester.          29, 2006    28, 2006

[[Page 81]]

 
                           Vanadium compounds
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13826-35-2        Benzenemethanol, 3-phenoxy-...   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
17103-31-0        Urea, sulfate (2:1)...........   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
17321-47-0        Phosphoramidothioic acid, O,O-   September    November
                   dimethyl ester.                  29, 2006    28, 2006
17976-43-1        2,4,6,8,3,5,7-                   September    November
                   Benzotetraoxatriplumbacycloun    29, 2006    28, 2006
                   decin-3,5,7-triylidene, 1,9-
                   dihydro-1,9-dioxo-.
19438-61-0        1,3-Isobenzofurandione, 5-       September    November
                   methyl-.                         29, 2006    28, 2006
19525-59-8        Glycine, N-phenyl-,              September    November
                   monopotassium salt.              29, 2006    28, 2006
20068-02-4        2-Butenenitrile, 2-methyl-,      September    November
                   (2Z)-.                           29, 2006    28, 2006
20227-53-6        Phosphorous acid, 2-(1,1-        September    November
                   dimethylethyl)-4-[1-[3-(1,1-     29, 2006    28, 2006
                   dimethylethyl)-4-
                   hydroxyphenyl]-1-
                   methylethyl]phenyl bis(4-
                   nonylphenyl) ester.
21351-39-3        Urea, sulfate (1:1)...........   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
22527-63-5        Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 3-    September    November
                   (benzoyloxy)-2,2,4-              29, 2006    28, 2006
                   trimethylpentyl ester.
24615-84-7        2-Propenoic acid, 2-             September    November
                   carboxyethyl ester.              29, 2006    28, 2006
24794-58-9        Formic acid, compd. with         September    November
                   2,2',2[ethanol] (1:1).           29, 2006    28, 2006
25154-38-5        Piperazineethanol.............   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
25168-05-2        Benzene, chloromethyl-........   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
25168-06-3        Phenol, (1-methylethyl)-......   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
25321-41-9        Benzenesulfonic acid, dimethyl-  September    November
                   .                                29, 2006    28, 2006
25383-99-7        Octadecanoic acid, 2-(1-         September    November
                   carboxyethoxy)-1-methyl-2-       29, 2006    28, 2006
                   oxoethyl ester, sodium salt.
25646-71-3        Methanesulfonamide, N-[2-[(4-    September    November
                   amino-3-                         29, 2006    28, 2006
                   methylphenyl)ethylamino]ethyl
                   ]-, sulfate (2:3).
26377-29-7        Phosphorodithioic acid, O,O-     September    November
                   dimethyl ester, sodium salt.     29, 2006    28, 2006
26401-27-4        Phosphorous acid, isooctyl       September    November
                   diphenyl ester.                  29, 2006    28, 2006
26680-54-6        2,5-Furandione, dihydro-3-       September    November
                   (octenyl)-.                      29, 2006    28, 2006
27193-28-8        Phenol, (1,1,3,3-                September    November
                   tetramethylbutyl)-.              29, 2006    28, 2006
28106-30-1        Benzene, ethenylethyl-........   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
28188-24-1        Octadecanoic acid, 2-            September    November
                   (hydroxymethyl)-2-[[(1-          29, 2006    28, 2006
                   oxooctadecyl)oxy]methyl]-1,3-
                   propanediyl ester.
28908-00-1        Benzothiazole, 2-                September    November
                   [(chloromethyl)thio]-.           29, 2006    28, 2006
30574-97-1        2-Butenenitrile, 2-methyl-,      September    November
                   (2E)-.                           29, 2006    28, 2006
34689-46-8        Phenol, methyl-, sodium salt..   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
35203-06-6        Benzenamine, 2-ethyl-6-methyl-   September    November
                   N-methylene-.                    29, 2006    28, 2006
35203-08-8        Benzenamine, 2,6-diethyl-N-      September    November
                   methylene-.                      29, 2006    28, 2006
37734-45-5        Carbonochloridothioic acid, S-   September    November
                   (phenylmethyl) ester.            29, 2006    28, 2006
37764-25-3        Acetamide, 2,2-dichloro-N,N-di-  September    November
                   2-propenyl-.                     29, 2006    28, 2006
38185-06-7        Benzenesulfonic acid, 4-chloro-  September    November
                   3,5-dinitro-, potassium salt.    29, 2006    28, 2006
38321-18-5        Ethanol, 2-(2-butoxyethoxy)-,    September    November
                   sodium salt.                     29, 2006    28, 2006
39515-51-0        Benzaldehyde, 3-phenoxy-......   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
40630-63-5        1-Octanesulfonyl fluoride.....   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006

[[Page 82]]

 
                           Vanadium compounds
------------------------------------------------------------------------
40876-98-0        Butanedioic acid, oxo-,          September    November
                   diethyl ester, ion(1-),          29, 2006    28, 2006
                   sodium.
51632-16-7        Benzene, 1-(bromomethyl)-3-      September    November
                   phenoxy-.                        29, 2006    28, 2006
52184-19-7        Phenol, 2,4-bis(1,1-             September    November
                   dimethylpropyl)-6-[(2-           29, 2006    28, 2006
                   nitrophenyl)azo]-.
52556-42-0        1-Propanesulfonic acid, 2-       September    November
                   hydroxy-3-(2-propenyloxy)-,      29, 2006    28, 2006
                   monosodium salt.
52663-57-7        Ethanol, 2-butoxy-, sodium       September    November
                   salt.                            29, 2006    28, 2006
56803-37-3        Phosphoric acid, (1,1-           September    November
                   dimethylethyl)phenyl diphenyl    29, 2006    28, 2006
                   ester.
57693-14-8        Chromate(3-), bis[3-(hydroxy-    September    November
                   .kappa.O)-4-[[2-(hydroxy-        29, 2006    28, 2006
                   .kappa.O)-1-naphthalenyl]azo-
                   .kappa.N1]-7-nitro-1-
                   naphthalenesulfonato(3-)]-,
                   trisodium.
61788-44-1        Phenol, styrenated............   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
61788-76-9        Alkanes, chloro...............   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
61789-85-3        Sulfonic acids, petroleum.....   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
63302-49-8        Phosphorochloridous acid,        September    November
                   bis(4-nonylphenyl) ester.        29, 2006    28, 2006
64743-02-8        Alkenes, C<ls-thn-eq>10          September    November
                   .alpha.-.                        29, 2006    28, 2006
64743-03-9        Phenols (petroleum)...........   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
65996-79-4        Solvent naphtha (coal)........   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
65996-82-9        Tar oils, coal................   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
65996-83-0        Extracts, coal tar oil alk....   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
65996-86-3        Extract oils (coal), tar base.   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
65996-87-4        Extract residues (coal), tar     September    November
                   oil alk..                        29, 2006    28, 2006
65996-89-6        Tar, coal, high-temp..........   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
65996-91-0        Distillates (coal tar), upper.   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
65996-92-1        Distillates (coal tar)........   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
68081-86-7        Phenol, nonyl derivs..........   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
68082-78-0        Lard, oil, Me esters..........   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
68153-60-6        Fatty acids, tall-oil,           September    November
                   reaction products with           29, 2006    28, 2006
                   diethylenetriamine, acetates.
68187-41-7        Phosphorodithioic acid, O,O-di-  September    November
                   C1-14-alkyl esters.              29, 2006    28, 2006
68187-57-5        Pitch, coal tar-petroleum.....   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
68187-59-7        Coal, anthracite, calcined....   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
68188-18-1        Paraffin oils,                   September    November
                   chlorosulfonated, saponified.    29, 2006    28, 2006
68308-74-7        Amides, tall-oil fatty, N,N-di-  September    November
                   Me.                              29, 2006    28, 2006
68309-16-0        Fatty acids, tall-oil, 2-(2-     September    November
                   hydroxyethoxy)ethyl esters.      29, 2006    28, 2006
68309-27-3        Fatty acids, tall-oil,           September    November
                   sulfonated, sodium salts.        29, 2006    28, 2006
68334-01-0        Disulfides, alkylaryl dialkyl    September    November
                   diaryl, petroleum refinery       29, 2006    28, 2006
                   spent caustic oxidn. products.
68441-66-7        Decanoic acid, mixed esters      September    November
                   with dipentaerythritol,          29, 2006    28, 2006
                   octanoic acid and valeric
                   acid.
68442-60-4        Acetaldehyde, reaction           September    November
                   products with formaldehyde,      29, 2006    28, 2006
                   by-products from.
68442-77-3        2-Butenediamide, (2E)-, N,N'-    September    November
                   bis[2-(4,5-dihydro-2-nortall-    29, 2006    28, 2006
                   oil alkyl-1H-imidazol-1-
                   yl)ethyl] derivs..

[[Page 83]]

 
                           Vanadium compounds
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68457-74-9        Phenol, isobutylenated           September    November
                   methylstyrenated.                29, 2006    28, 2006
68513-62-2        Disulfides, C5-12-alkyl.......   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
68515-89-9        Barium, carbonate nonylphenol    September    November
                   complexes.                       29, 2006    28, 2006
68527-22-0        Naphtha (petroleum), clay-       September    November
                   treated light straight-run.      29, 2006    28, 2006
68584-25-8        Benzenesulfonic acid, C10-16-    September    November
                   alkyl derivs., compds. with      29, 2006    28, 2006
                   triethanolamine.
68602-81-3        Distillates, hydrocarbon resin   September    November
                   prodn. higher boiling.           29, 2006    28, 2006
68608-59-3        Ethane, 1,2-dichloro-, manuf.    September    November
                   of, by-products from, distn.     29, 2006    28, 2006
                   lights.
68609-05-2        Cyclohexane, oxidized, non-      September    November
                   acidic by-products, distn.       29, 2006    28, 2006
                   lights.
68610-90-2        2-Butenedioic acid (2E)-, di-    September    November
                   C8-18-alkyl esters.              29, 2006    28, 2006
68649-42-3        Phosphorodithioic acid, O,O-di-  September    November
                   C1-14-alkyl esters, zinc         29, 2006    28, 2006
                   salts.
68650-36-2        Aromatic hydrocarbons, C8, o-    September    November
                   xylene-lean.                     29, 2006    28, 2006
68782-97-8        Distillates (petroleum),         September    November
                   hydrofined lubricating-oil.      29, 2006    28, 2006
68815-50-9        Octadecanoic acid, reaction      September    November
                   products with 2-[(2-             29, 2006    28, 2006
                   aminoethyl)amino]ethanol.
68909-77-3        Ethanol, 2,2'-oxybis-,           September    November
                   reaction products with           29, 2006    28, 2006
                   ammonia, morpholine derivs.
                   residues.
68915-05-9        Fatty acids, tall-oil, low-      September    November
                   boiling, reaction products       29, 2006    28, 2006
                   with ammonia-ethanolamine
                   reaction by-products.
68915-39-9        Cyclohexane, oxidized, aq.       September    November
                   ext., sodium salt.               29, 2006    28, 2006
68918-16-1        Tar, coal, dried and oxidized.   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
68919-17-5        Hydrocarbons, C12-20,            September    November
                   catalytic alkylation by-         29, 2006    28, 2006
                   products.
68937-29-1        1,6-Hexanediol, distn.           September    November
                   residues.                        29, 2006    28, 2006
68937-70-2        Carboxylic acids, C6-18 and C8-  September    November
                   15-di-.                          29, 2006    28, 2006
68937-72-4        Carboxylic acids, di-, C4-11..   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
68953-80-0        Benzene, mixed with toluene,     September    November
                   dealkylation product.            29, 2006    28, 2006
68955-37-3        Acid chlorides, tallow,          September    November
                   hydrogenated.                    29, 2006    28, 2006
68955-76-0        Aromatic hydrocarbons, C9-16,    September    November
                   biphenyl deriv.-rich.            29, 2006    28, 2006
68987-41-7        Benzene, ethylenated..........   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
68987-66-6        Ethene, hydrated, by-products    September    November
                   from.                            29, 2006    28, 2006
68988-22-7        1,4-Benzenedicarboxylic acid,    September    November
                   dimethyl ester, manuf. of, by-   29, 2006    28, 2006
                   products from.
68990-61-4        Tar, coal, high-temp., high-     September    November
                   solids.                          29, 2006    28, 2006
68990-65-8        Fats and Glyceridic oils,        September    November
                   vegetable, reclaimed.            29, 2006    28, 2006
70084-98-9        Terpenes and Terpenoids, C10-    September    November
                   30, distn. residues.             29, 2006    28, 2006
70693-50-4        Phenol, 2,4-bis(1-methyl-1-      September    November
                   phenylethyl)-6-[(2-              29, 2006    28, 2006
                   nitrophenyl)azo]-.
70851-08-0        Amides, coco, N-[3-              September    November
                   (dimethylamino)propyl],          29, 2006    28, 2006
                   alkylation products with
                   sodium 3-chloro-2-
                   hydroxypropanesulfonate.
71077-05-9        Ethanol, 2,2'-oxybis-,           September    November
                   reaction products with           29, 2006    28, 2006
                   ammonia, morpholine product
                   tower residues.
72162-15-3        1-Decene, sulfurized..........   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
72854-27-4        Tannins, reaction products       September    November
                   with sodium bisulfite, sodium    29, 2006    28, 2006
                   polysulfide and sodium
                   sulfite.

[[Page 84]]

 
                           Vanadium compounds
------------------------------------------------------------------------
73665-18-6        Extract residues (coal), tar     September    November
                   oil alk., naphthalene distn.     29, 2006    28, 2006
                   residues.
83864-02-2        Nickel, bis[(cyano-              September    November
                   C)triphenylborato(1-)-           29, 2006    28, 2006
                   N]bis(hexanedinitrile-N,N')-.
84501-86-0        Hexanedioic acid, esters with    September    November
                   high-boiling C6-10-alkene        29, 2006    28, 2006
                   hydroformylation products.
90640-80-5        Anthracene oil................   September    November
                                                    29, 2006    28, 2006
90640-86-1        Distillates (coal tar), heavy    September    November
                   oils.                            29, 2006    28, 2006
119345-02-7       Benzene, 1,1'-oxybis-,           September    November
                   tetrapropylene derivs..          29, 2006    28, 2006
125997-20-8       Phosphoric acid, mixed 3-bromo-  September    November
                   2,2-dimethylpropyl and 2-        29, 2006    28, 2006
                   bromoethyl and 2-chloroethyl
                   esters.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


(Secs 8(a) and 8(d), 90 Stat. 2027, 2029; 15 U.S.C. 2607 (a) and (d))

[47 FR 26998, June 22, 1982]

    Editorial Note: For Federal Register citations affecting Sec. 
712.30, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the 
Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.fdsys.gov.

    Effective Date Note: At 59 FR 14115, Mar. 25, 1994, in Sec. 712.30 
paragraph (x), the chemical substances under the category ``propylene 
glycol ethers esters'' and all related dates were stayed, effective Mar. 
25, 1994. At 60 FR 31921, June 19, 1995, Sec. 712.30 was amended in 
part by redesignating paragraph (x) as paragraph (e).


<R03>
PART 716_HEALTH AND SAFETY DATA REPORTING--Table of Contents



                      Subpart A_General Provisions

Sec.
716.1 Scope and compliance.
716.3 Definitions.
716.5 Persons who must report.
716.10 Studies to be reported.
716.20 Studies not subject to the reporting requirements.
716.21 Chemical specific reporting requirements.
716.25 Adequate file search.
716.30 Submission of copies of studies.
716.35 Submission of lists of studies.
716.40 EPA requests for submission of further information.
716.45 How to report on substances and mixtures.
716.50 Reporting physical and chemical properties.
716.55 Confidentiality claims.
716.60 Reporting schedule.
716.65 Reporting period.

                  Subpart B_Specific Chemical Listings

716.105 Additions of substances and mixtures to which this subpart 
          applies.
716.120 Substances and listed mixtures to which this subpart applies.

    Authority: 15 U.S.C. 2607(d).

    Source: 51 FR 32726, Sept. 15, 1986, unless otherwise noted.


<R04>
                      Subpart A_General Provisions


<R05>
Sec. 716.1  Scope and compliance.

    (a) This subpart sets forth requirements for the submission of lists 
and copies of health and safety studies on chemical substances and 
mixtures selected for priority consideration for testing rules under 
section 4(a) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) and on other 
chemical substances and mixtures for which EPA requires health and 
safety information in fulfilling the purposes of TSCA.
    (b) Section 15(3) of TSCA makes it unlawful for any person to fail 
or refuse to submit information required under this subpart. Section 16 
provides that a violation of section 15 renders a person liable to the 
United States for a civil penalty and possible criminal prosecution. 
Under section 17, the district courts of the United States have 
jurisdiction to restrain any violation of section 15.

[[Page 85]]


<R05>
Sec. 716.3  Definitions.

    The definitions in section 3 of TSCA apply to this subpart. In 
addition, the following definitions are provided for the purposes of 
this subpart:
    Byproduct means a chemical substance produced without a separate 
commercial intent during the manufacture, processing, use, or disposal 
of another chemical substance(s) or mixture(s).
    Central Data Exchange or CDX means EPA's centralized electronic 
submission receiving system.
    Chemical Information Submission System or CISS means EPA's 
electronic, web-based tool for the completion and submission of data, 
reports, and other information, or its successors.
    Co-product means a chemical substance produced for a commercial 
purpose during the manufacture, processing, use, or disposal of another 
chemical substance(s) or mixture(s).
    Copy of study means the written presentation of the purpose and 
methodology of a study and its results.
    EPA means the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
    Health and safety study or study means any study of any effect of a 
chemical substance or mixture on health or the environment or on both, 
including underlying data and epidemiological studies, studies of 
occupational exposure to a chemical substance or mixture, toxicological, 
clinical, and ecological or other studies of a chemical substance or 
mixture, and any test performed under TSCA.
    (1) It is intended that the term health and safety study be 
interpreted broadly. Not only is information which arises as a result of 
a formal, disciplined study included, but other information relating to 
the effects of a chemical substance or mixture on health or the 
environment is also included. Any data that bear on the effects of a 
chemical substance on health or the environment would be included. 
Chemical identity is part of, or underlying data to, a health and safety 
study.
    (2) Examples are:
    (i) Long- and short-term tests of mutagenicity, carcinogenicity, or 
teratogenicity; data on behavioral disorders; dermatoxicity; 
pharmacological effects; mammalian absorption, distribution, metabolism, 
and excretion; cumulative, additive, and synergistic effects; and acute, 
subchronic, and chronic effects.
    (ii) Tests for ecological or other environmental effects on 
invertebrates, fish, or other animals, and plants, including: Acute 
toxicity tests, chronic toxicity tests, critical life-stage tests, 
behavioral tests, algal growth tests, seed germination tests, plant 
growth or damage tests, microbial function tests, bioconcentration or 
bioaccumulation tests, and model ecosystem (microcosm) studies.
    (iii) Assessments of human and environmental exposure, including 
workplace exposure, and impacts of a particular chemical substance or 
mixture on the environment, including surveys, tests, and studies of: 
Biological, photochemical, and chemical degradation; structure/activity 
relationships; air, water, and soil transport; biomagnification and 
bioconcentration; and chemical and physical properties, e.g., boiling 
point, vapor pressure, evaporation rates from soil and water, octanol/
water partition coefficient, and water solubility.
    (iv) Monitoring data, when they have been aggregated and analyzed to 
measure the exposure of humans or the environment to a chemical 
substance or mixture.
    Import means to import for commercial purposes.
    Import for commercial purposes means to import with the purpose of 
obtaining an immediate or eventual commercial advantage for the 
importer, and includes the importation of any amount of a chemical 
substance or mixture. If a chemical substance or mixture containing 
impurities is imported for commercial purposes, then those impurities 
are also imported for commercial purposes.
    Importer means any person who imports a chemical substance, 
including a chemical substance as a part of a mixture or article, into 
the customs territory of the United States and includes the person 
primarily liable for the payment of any duties on the merchandise or an 
authorized agent acting on his behalf (as defined in 19 CFR 1.11). 
Importer also includes, as appropriate:
    (1) The consignee.

[[Page 86]]

    (2) The importer of record.
    (3) The actual owner, if an actual owner's declaration and 
superseding bond has been filed in accordance with 19 CFR 141.20.
    (4) The transferee, if the right to draw merchandise in a bonded 
warehouse has been transferred in accordance with subpart C of 19 CFR 
part 144. For the purpose of this definition, the customs territory of 
the United States consists of the 50 States, Puerto Rico, and the 
District of Columbia.
    Impurity means a chemical substance which is unintentionally present 
with another chemical substance.
    Listed mixture means any mixture listed in Sec. 716.120.
    Manufacture means to manufacture for commercial purposes.
    Manufacture for commercial purposes means: (1) To produce, with the 
purpose of obtaining an immediate or eventual commercial advantage for 
the manufacturer, and includes among other things such ``manufacture'' 
of any amount of a chemical substance or mixture:
    (i) For commercial distribution, including for test marketing.
    (ii) For use by the manufacturer, including use for product research 
and development, or as an intermediate.
    (2) Manufacture for commercial purposes also applies to substances 
that are produced coincidentally during the manufacture, processing, 
use, or disposal of another substance or mixture, including byproducts 
and impurities. Such byproducts and impurities may, or may not, in 
themselves have commercial value. They are nonetheless produced for the 
purpose of obtaining a commercial advantage since they are part of the 
manufacture of a chemical product for a commercial purpose.
    Manufacturer means a person who produces or manufactures a chemical 
substance. A person who extracts a component chemical substance from a 
previously existing chemical substance or a complex combination of 
substances is a manufacturer of that component chemical substance.
    Person includes any individual, firm, company, corporation, joint-
venture, partnership, sole proprietorship, association, or any other 
business entity, any State or political subdivision thereof, any 
municipality, any interstate body, and any department, agency, or 
instrumentality of the Federal government.
    Process means to process for commercial purposes.
    Process for commercial purposes means the preparation of a chemical 
substance or mixture, after its manufacture, for distribution in 
commerce with the purpose of obtaining an immediate or eventual 
commercial advantage for the processor. Processing of any amount of a 
chemical substance or mixture is included. If a chemical substance or 
mixture containing impurities is processed for commercial purposes, then 
those impurities are also processed for commercial purposes.
    Propose to manufacture, import, or process means that a person has 
made a management decision to commit financial resources toward the 
manufacture, importation, or processing of a substance or mixture.
    Substance means chemical substance as defined at section 3(2)(A) of 
TSCA, 15 U.S.C. 2602(2)(A).
    TSCA means the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2601 et 
seq.).

[51 FR 32726, Sept. 15, 1986, as amended at 78 FR 72826, Dec. 4, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 716.5  Persons who must report.

    (a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, 
only those persons described in this section are required to report 
under this part. Persons who must report include manufacturers 
(including importers) who fall within the North American Industry 
Classification System (NAICS) (in effect as of January 1, 1997) 
Subsector 325 (chemical manufacturing and allied products) or Industry 
Group 32411 (petroleum refineries), who:
    (1) In the 10 years preceding the effective date on which a 
substance or mixture is added to Sec. 716.120, either had proposed to 
manufacture (including import), or had manufactured (including imported) 
the listed substance or listed mixture (including as a known byproduct), 
are required to report during the reporting period specified in Sec. 
716.65.
    (2) As of the effective date on which a substance or mixture is 
added to

[[Page 87]]

Sec. 716.120, and who propose to manufacture (including import), or who 
are manufacturing (including importing) the listed substance or listed 
mixture (including as a known byproduct), are required to report during 
the reporting period specified in Sec. 716.65.
    (3) After the effective date on which a substance or mixture is 
added to Sec. 716.120, and who propose to manufacture (including 
import) the listed substance or listed mixture (including as a known 
byproduct), are required to report during the reporting period specified 
in Sec. 716.65.
    (b) A rule promulgated under the authority of 15 U.S.C. 2607(d) may 
require that any person who does not fall within NAICS (in effect as of 
January 1, 1997) Subsector 325 or Industry Group 32411, and who had 
proposed to manufacture (including import) or process, had manufactured 
(including imported) or processed, proposes to manufacture (including 
import) or process, or is manufacturing (including importing) or 
processing a substance or mixture listed in Sec. 716.120 must report 
under this part.
    (c) Processors and persons who propose to process a substance or 
mixture otherwise subject to the reporting requirements imposed by this 
part are not subject to this part unless EPA specifically states 
otherwise in a particular notice or rule promulgated under the authority 
of 15 U.S.C. 2607(d).

[63 FR 15773, Apr. 1, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 716.10  Studies to be reported.

    (a) In general, health and safety studies, as defined in Sec. 
716.3, on any substance or listed mixture listed in Sec. 716.120, that 
are unpublished are reportable, i.e., must be submitted or listed. 
However, this requirement has limitations according to the nature of the 
material studied, so that:
    (1) All studies of substances and listed mixtures are reportable. 
However, in the case of physical and chemical properties, only those 
studies listed in Sec. 716.50 must be submitted.
    (2) Studies of mixtures known to contain substances or listed 
mixtures listed in Sec. 716.120 are reportable except for studies of 
physical and chemical properties and the studies exempted at Sec. 
716.20(a)(6) (i) through (vi).
    (3) Studies of substances or listed mixtures that a person who is 
reporting has manufactured, imported, or processed or proposed to 
manufacture, import, or process only as impurities are not generally 
reportable under Sec. 716.20(a)(9).
    (4) Underlying data, such as medical or health records, individual 
files, lab notebooks, and daily monitoring records supporting studies do 
not have to be submitted initially. EPA may request underlying data 
later under Sec. 716.40.
    (b) [Reserved]


<R05>
Sec. 716.20  Studies not subject to the reporting requirements.

    (a) Excluding paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the following types 
of studies are exempt from the copy and list submission requirements of 
Sec. Sec. 716.30 and 716.35.
    (1) Studies which have been published in the scientific literature.
    (2) Studies previously submitted to the EPA Office of Pollution 
Prevention and Toxics. These studies are limited to section 8(e) 
submissions, studies submitted during section 4 proceedings, studies 
submitted with premanufacture notices or significant new use notices, 
and studies submitted ``for your information'' (FYI submissions) in 
support of EPA's TSCA Existing Chemicals Program. Studies which have 
been initiated pursuant to a TSCA section 4(a) test rule, for which the 
person has submitted a letter of intent to conduct testing in accordance 
with the provisions of Sec. 790.25 of part 790 of this chapter, are 
exempt from the list submission requirements of Sec. 716.35.
    (3) Except for those studies described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section, studies previously submitted to any Federal agency with no 
claims of confidentiality are exempt only from the copy submission 
requirements of Sec. 716.30, and must be listed in accordance with the 
provisions of Sec. 716.35.
    (4) Studies conducted or initiated by or for another person who is 
subject to, and who will report the studies under Sec. Sec. 716.30 and 
716.35.
    (5) Studies of chemical substances which are not on the TSCA 
Chemical Substances Inventory. This exemption

[[Page 88]]

applies only to those substances within categories listed under Sec. 
716.120(c).
    (6) The following types of studies when the subject of the study is 
a mixture known to contain a substance or listed mixture listed under 
Sec. 716.120.
    (i) Acute oral toxicity studies.
    (ii) Acute dermal toxicity studies.
    (iii) Acute inhalation toxicity studies.
    (iv) Primary eye irritation studies.
    (v) Primary dermal irritation studies.
    (vi) Dermal sensitization studies.
    (vii) Physical and chemical properties.

If the substance or listed mixture is an impurity, no reporting is 
required (see paragraph (a)(9) of this section).
    (7) Analyzed aggregations of monitoring data based on monitoring 
data acquired more than 5 years preceding the date the substance or 
listed mixture was added to the list under Sec. 716.120.
    (8) Analyzed aggregations of monitoring data on mixtures known to 
contain one or more substances or listed mixtures listed in Sec. 
716.120, when the monitoring data are not analyzed to determine the 
exposure or concentration levels of the substances or listed mixture 
listed under Sec. 716.120.
    (9) Studies on a substance or listed mixture listed under Sec. 
716.120 that the person who is reporting has manufactured, imported, or 
processed or proposed to manufacture, import, or process only as an 
impurity. When reporting of such studies is to be required, that 
reporting will be separately proposed in the Federal Register.
    (10) Studies of chemical substances or listed mixtures previously 
submitted by trade associations in accordance with the provisions of 
Sec. 716.30.
    (b) The following types of studies on substances or listed mixtures 
listed under Sec. 716.120 are exempt from the copy and list submission 
requirements of Sec. Sec. 716.30 and 716.35.
    (1) For the listed ureaformaldehyde resins (CAS Nos. 9011-05-6 and 
68611-64-3), studies on agronomic plant growth or damage which 
demonstrate only that the resins stimulate plant growth or cause plant 
damage when applied as a fertilizer.
    (2) For the specified chemicals in Sec. 716.120(d) under the 
category ``Siloxanes,'' acute oral, dermal, and inhalation toxicity 
studies and primary eye and dermal irritation studies.
    (3) For the listed chemicals under Sec. 716.120(d) in the category 
``OSHA Chemicals in Need of Dermal Absorption Testing,'' studies on 
ecological effects.
    (4) For the chemicals listed at Sec. 716.120 with a special 
exemption referencing this paragraph, studies on mixtures containing the 
listed substance at levels below 1 percent of the mixture, except when a 
purpose of the study includes the investigation of the effects of the 
listed substance at levels below 1 percent.
    (5) Rulemaking proceedings that add substances and mixtures to Sec. 
716.120 will specify the types of health and/or environmental effects 
studies that must be reported and will specify the chemical grade/purity 
requirements that must be met or exceeded in individual studies. 
Chemical grade/purity requirements will be specified on a per chemical 
basis or for a category of chemicals for which reporting is required.

[51 FR 32726, Sept. 15, 1986, as amended at 58 FR 47649, Sept. 10, 1993; 
58 FR 68315, Dec. 27, 1993; 60 FR 34884, July 5, 1995; 63 FR 15773, Apr. 
1, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 716.21  Chemical specific reporting requirements.

    (a) Health and safety studies reportable under part 716 for the 
following chemical substances, mixtures, or categories of chemical 
substances, as listed in Sec. 716.120, must be submitted or listed only 
as specified in this section:
    (1) For 3H-1,2,4-triazole-3-thione, 5-amino-1,2-dihydro- and 
imidazo[4,5-d]imidazole-2,5-(1H,3H)-dione, tetrahydro-, all unpublished 
environmental effects studies and health effects studies on 
pharmacokinetics, genotoxicity, subchronic toxicity, immunotoxicity, 
carcinogenicity, reproductive effects, and developmental toxicity where 
the purity of 3H-1,2,4-triazole-3-thione, 5-amino-1,2-dihydro- or 
imidazo[4,5-d]imidazole-2,5-(1H,3H)-dione, tetrahydro- is greater than 
or equal to 90% of the test substance by weight must be submitted.

[[Page 89]]

    (2) For benzenamine, 3-chloro-2,6-dinitro-N,N-dipropyl-4-
(trifluoromethyl)-, all unpublished environmental effects studies 
including bioconcentration, environmental fate studies on 
biodegradation, and health effects studies on pharmacokinetics, 
subchronic toxicity, mutagenicity, reproductive effects, and 
developmental toxicity, and carcinogenicity where the purity of 
benzenamine, 3-chloro-2,6-dinitro-N,N-dipropyl-4-(trifluoromethyl)- is 
greater than or equal to 90% of the test substance by weight must be 
submitted.
    (3) For stannane, dimethylbis[(1-oxoneodecyl)oxy]-, all unpublished 
environmental effects studies including bioconcentration, environmental 
fate studies on hydrolysis and biodegradation and health effects studies 
on pharmacokinetics, subchronic toxicity, mutagenicity, neurotoxicity, 
reproductive effects, and developmental toxicity, and carcinogenicity 
where the purity of stannane, dimethylbis[(1-oxoneodecyl)oxy]- is 
greater than or equal to 90% of the test substance by weight must be 
submitted.
    (4) For benzene, 1,3,5-tribromo-2-(2-propenyloxy)-, all unpublished 
environmental effects studies including bioconcentration, environmental 
fate studies on biodegradation and health effects studies on 
pharmacokinetics, subchronic toxicity, neurotoxicity, reproductive 
effects, and developmental toxicity, and carcinogenicity where the 
purity of benzene, 1,3,5-tribromo-2-(2-propenyloxy)- is greater than or 
equal to 90% of the test substance by weight must be submitted.
    (5) For 1-triazene, 1,3-diphenyl-, all unpublished health effects 
studies on pharmacokinetics, genotoxicity, subchronic and chronic 
toxicity, reproductive effects, and developmental toxicity where the 
purity of 1-triazene, 1,3-diphenyl- is greater than or equal to 90% of 
the test substance by weight must be submitted.
    (6) For the 9 chemicals in the indium compound category, all 
unpublished health effects studies on pharmacokinetics, genotoxicity, 
subchronic and chronic toxicity, reproductive effects, and developmental 
toxicity where the purity of the indium compound is greater than or 
equal to 90% of the test substance by weight must be submitted.
    (7) For all voluntary HPV Challenge Program orphan (unsponsored) 
chemicals:
    (i) All unpublished environmental fate studies, meeting the criteria 
set forth in paragraph (a)(7)(iv) of this section, on water solubility; 
adsorption/desorption on particulate surfaces, e.g., soil; vapor 
pressure; octanol/water partition coefficient; density/relative density 
(specific gravity); particle size distribution for insoluble solids; 
dissociation constant; degradation by photochemical mechanisms--aquatic 
and atmospheric; degradation by chemical mechanisms--hydrolytic, 
reductive, and oxidative; degradation by biological mechanisms--aerobic 
and anaerobic. Studies of physical and chemical properties meeting the 
criteria set forth in paragraph (a)(7)(iv) of this section must be 
reported if performed for the purpose of determining the environmental 
or biological fate of a substance, and only if they investigated one or 
more of the properties listed in this paragraph. In addition, all 
unpublished studies meeting the criteria set forth in paragraph 
(a)(7)(iv) of this section on melting point and boiling point must be 
submitted.
    (ii) All unpublished health effects studies meeting the criteria set 
forth in paragraph (a)(7)(iv) of this section including 
pharmacokinetics, genotoxicity, acute toxicity, subacute toxicity, 
subchronic toxicity, chronic toxicity, reproductive toxicity, 
developmental toxicity, immunotoxicity, neurotoxicity, and oncogenicity/
carcinogenicity.
    (iii) All unpublished environmental effects studies meeting the 
criteria set forth in paragraph (a)(7)(iv) of this section including 
acute and chronic toxicity studies of aquatic and terrestrial 
vertebrates and invertebrates and aquatic plants.
    (iv) Only studies where the voluntary HPV Challenge Program orphan 
(unsponsored) chemical is <ls-thn-eq>=90% of the test substance by 
weight should be submitted. In addition, only studies that were 
conducted using TSCA, Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide 
Act (FIFRA), Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development

[[Page 90]]

(OECD) or other internationally accepted test guidelines or voluntary 
consensus standards should be submitted. Studies performed where the 
voluntary HPV Challenge Program orphan (unsponsored) chemical is <90% of 
the test substance by weight are not requested at this time.
    (8)(i) Reporting requirements apply only to manufacturers (including 
importers) of consumer products intended for use by children who also 
manufacture (including import) lead or lead compounds. For the category 
``lead and lead compounds,'' all unpublished health and safety studies 
that:
    (A) Relate to the lead content of consumer products that are 
``intended for use by children'' as that term is defined at 40 CFR 
710.43 (excluding children's metal jewelry), or
    (B) Assess children's exposure to lead from such products (including 
studies of bioavailability).
    (ii) With regard to purity, studies showing any measurable lead 
content in such products must be submitted.
    (b) [Reserved]

[69 FR 24522, May 4, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 47135, Aug. 16, 2006; 73 
FR 5115, Jan. 29, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 716.25  Adequate file search.

    The scope of a person's responsibility to search records is limited 
to records in the location(s) where the required information is 
typically kept, and to records kept by the person or the person's 
individual employee(s) who is/are responsible for keeping such records 
or advising the person on the health and environmental effects of 
chemicals. Persons are not required to search for reportable information 
dated before January 1, 1977, to comply with this subpart unless 
specifically required to do so in a rule.

[63 FR 15773, Apr. 1, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 716.30  Submission of copies of studies.

    (a)(1) Except as provided in Sec. Sec. 716.5, 716.20, and 716.50, 
persons must send to EPA copies of any health and safety studies in 
their possession for the substances or mixtures listed in Sec. 716.120. 
Persons are responsible for submitting copies on only the substances or 
listed mixtures which they: Have manufactured, imported, or processed or 
proposed to manufacture, import, or process (including as known 
byproducts) within the 10 years preceding the effective date for 
reporting on the substances or listed mixtures; manufacture, import, or 
process on the effective date for reporting on the substances or listed 
mixtures; and propose to manufacture, import, or process following the 
effective date for reporting on the substances or listed mixtures. 
Persons who list studies as ongoing or initiated under Sec. 716.35(a) 
(1) and (2) must submit them when they are completed.
    (2) [Reserved]
    (b) Submissions under paragraph (a) of this section must be 
identified either on the face of the study or otherwise by the 
applicable chemical name and CAS number (if any) listed in Sec. 
716.120(a) (1) and (2), and must be accompanied by a cover letter 
containing the name, job title, address and telephone number of the 
submitting official, and the name and address of the manufacturing or 
processing establishment on whose behalf the submission is made. In the 
cover letter, submitters must identify any impurity or additive known to 
have been present in the substance or listed mixtures as studied unless 
its presence is specifically noted in the study itself. The cover letter 
accompanying a study submitted by a trade association must also state 
that the submission is to satisfy reporting requirements under this 
part.
    (c) Persons must use the CISS tool to complete and submit all data, 
reports, and other information required by 40 CFR part 716, via CDX. 
Submission requires registration with CDX, and must be made only as set 
forth in this section.
    (d) To access the CISS tool go to https://cdx.epa.gov/ssl/CSPP/
PrimaryAuthorizedOfficial/Home.aspx and follow the appropriate links and 
for further instructions to go http://www.epa.gov/oppt/chemtest/
ereporting/index.html.

[51 FR 32726, Sept. 15, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 20084, May 29, 1987; 
52 FR 44828, Nov. 20, 1987; 53 FR 12523, Apr. 15, 1988; 60 FR 34463, 
July 3, 1995; 63 FR 15773, Apr. 1, 1998; 71 FR 47135, Aug. 16, 2006; 78 
FR 72826, Dec. 4, 2013]

[[Page 91]]


<R05>
Sec. 716.35  Submission of lists of studies.

    (a) Except as provided in Sec. Sec. 716.5, 716.20, and 716.50, 
persons subject to this rule must send lists of studies to EPA for each 
of the listed substances or listed mixtures (including as a known 
byproduct) in Sec. 716.120 which they are manufacturing, importing, or 
processing, or which they propose to manufacture (including import) or 
process.
    (1) Ongoing studies. As of the date a person becomes subject to this 
part, a list of ongoing health and safety studies being conducted by or 
initiated for them, noting for each entry: The beginning date of the 
study, the purpose of the study, the types of data to be collected, the 
anticipated date of completion, and the name and address of the 
laboratory conducting the study.
    (2) Initiated studies. After the date a person becomes subject to 
this part, a list of studies initiated by or for them, noting for each 
entry: The beginning date of the study, the purpose of the study, the 
types of data to be collected, the anticipated date of completion, and 
the name and address of the laboratory conducting the study.
    (3) Studies which are known but without possession of copies. As of 
the date a person becomes subject to this part, a list of unpublished 
health and safety studies known to them of which they do not have 
copies. The name and address of any person known to them to possess a 
copy of the unpublished study must accompany each entry on the list. For 
purposes of this section only, an unpublished study will be considered 
to be ``known to'' a person, if the study can be discovered by a file 
search in accordance with Sec. 716.25.
    (4) Studies previously sent to Federal agencies without 
confidentiality claims. A list of unpublished studies which have been 
sent to a Federal Agency with no claims of confidentiality. The 
submission must for each study: Identify the study by title, state the 
name and address to whom the study was sent, and the month and year in 
which the study was submitted. Any study identified will be treated as 
if it were submitted under section 8(d) and will be available for public 
disclosure under section 14(b) of TSCA. Persons subject to this 
requirement may submit either a list of unpublished health and safety 
studies previously submitted to any Federal agency without claims of 
confidentiality in accordance with Sec. 716.35(a)(4), or copies of each 
such study in accordance with Sec. 716.30.
    (b) Submission under paragraph (a) of this section must be 
identified either on the face of the study or otherwise by the 
applicable chemical name and CAS number (if any) listed in Sec. 
716.120(a) (1) and (2), and must be accompanied by a cover letter 
containing the name, job title, address and telephone numbers of the 
submitting official, and the name and address of the manufacturing or 
processing establishment on whose behalf the submission is made.
    (c) Persons must use the CISS tool to complete and submit all data, 
reports, and other information required by 40 CFR part 716, via CDX. 
Submission requires registration with CDX, and must be made only as set 
forth in this section.
    (d) To access the CISS tool go to https://cdx.epa.gov/ssl/CSPP/
PrimaryAuthorizedOfficial/Home.aspx and follow the appropriate links and 
for further instructions to go http://www.epa.gov/oppt/chemtest/
ereporting/index.html.

[51 FR 32726, Sept. 15, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 20084, May 29, 1987; 
52 FR 44828, Nov. 20, 1987; 53 FR 12523, Apr. 15, 1988; 53 FR 46746, 
Nov. 18, 1988; 60 FR 34463, July 3, 1995; 63 FR 15774, Apr. 1, 1998; 71 
FR 47135, Aug. 16, 2006; 78 FR 72826, Dec. 4, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 716.40  EPA requests for submission of further information.

    EPA may, by letter, request a person to submit or make available for 
review the following information after the initial reporting under 
Sec. Sec. 716.30 and 716.35. If the requested submissions are not made, 
EPA may subpoena them under section 11 of TSCA, 15 U.S.C. 2610.
    (a) Submission of underlying data of the kind described in Sec. 
716.10(a)(4) by persons who submit copies of studies under Sec. 716.30 
or list studies under Sec. 716.35(a)(1) or Sec. 716.35(a)(2).
    (b) Submission of preliminary reports of ongoing studies by persons 
who list the studies under Sec. 716.35(a)(1) or Sec. 716.35(a)(2).

[[Page 92]]

    (c) Submission of copies of studies by persons listed under Sec. 
716.35(a)(3) as possessing them.


<R05>
Sec. 716.45  How to report on substances and mixtures.

    Section 716.120 lists substances and mixtures, in order by Chemical 
Abstract Service Registry Number and by alphabetical order. Studies of 
listed substances and listed mixtures shall be reported as follows:
    (a) When a substance is individually listed under Sec. 716.120(a), 
studies of the substance and studies of mixtures known to contain the 
substance must be reported as studies of that substance.
    (b) When two or more substances are listed as a mixture under Sec. 
716.120(b), studies of the listed mixture and studies of any mixture 
known to contain the listed mixture must be reported as studies of the 
listed mixture.
    (c) Studies of the following preparations of a substance must be 
reported as studies of the substance itself, not as studies of mixtures 
known to contain the substance.
    (1) The substance in aqueous solution.
    (2) The substance containing a small amount of an additive, such as 
a stabilizer, emulsifier, or other chemical added for purposes of 
maintaining the integrity or physical form of the substance.
    (3) The substance of the grade/purity specified in each rule 
promulgated under 15 U.S.C. 2607(d).

[51 FR 32726, Sept. 15, 1986, as amended at 63 FR 15774, Apr. 1, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 716.50  Reporting physical and chemical properties.

    Studies of physical and chemical properties must be reported under 
this subpart if performed for the purpose of determining the 
environmental or biological fate of a substance, and only if they 
investigated one or more of the following properties:
    (a) Water solubility.
    (b) Adsorption/desorption on particulate surfaces, e.g., soil.
    (c) Vapor pressure.
    (d) Octanol/water partition coefficient.
    (e) Density/relative density (specific gravity).
    (f) Particle size distribution for insoluble solids.
    (g) Dissociation constant.
    (h) Degradation by photochemical mechanisms--aquatic and 
atmospheric.
    (i) Degradation by chemical mechanisms--hydrolytic, reductive, and 
oxidative.
    (j) Degradation by biological mechanisms--aerobic and anaerobic.


<R05>
Sec. 716.55  Confidentiality claims.

    (a)(1) Section 14(b) of TSCA provides that EPA may not withhold from 
disclosure, on the grounds that they are confidential business 
information, health and safety studies of any substance or mixture that 
has been offered for commercial distribution (including for test 
marketing purposes and for use in research and development), any 
substance or mixture for which testing is required under TSCA section 4, 
or any substance for which notice is required under TSCA section 5, 
except to the extent that disclosure of data from such studies would 
reveal--
    (i) Processes used in the manufacturing, importing, or processing of 
the substance or mixture, or
    (ii) The portion of a mixture comprised by any of the substances in 
the mixture.
    (2) Any respondent who wishes to assert a claim that part of a study 
should be withheld from disclosure because disclosure would reveal a 
confidential process or quantitative mixture composition should briefly 
state the basis of the claim, e.g., by saying ``reveals confidential 
mixture proportion data,'' and clearly identify the material subject to 
the claim.
    (3) Any respondent may assert a confidentiality claim for company 
name or address, financial statistics, and product codes used by a 
company. This information will not be subject to the disclosure 
requirements of section 14(b) of TSCA.
    (4) Information other than company name or address, financial 
statistics, and product codes used by a company, which is contained in a 
study, the disclosure of which would clearly be an unwarranted invasion 
of personal privacy (such as individual medical

[[Page 93]]

records), will be considered confidential by EPA as provided in Title 5, 
United States Code, section 552(b)(6).
    (b) To assert a claim of confidentiality for data contained in a 
submitted document, the respondent must submit two copies of the 
document:
    (1) One copy must be complete. In that copy, the respondent must 
indicate what data, if any, are claimed as confidential by bracketing or 
underlining the specific information. Each page containing data claimed 
as confidential must also contain a brief statement for the basis of the 
claim as well as a label such as ``confidential,'' ``proprietary,'' or 
``trade secret.''
    (2) The second copy must be complete, except that all information 
claimed as confidential in the first copy must be deleted. The second 
copy will be immediately subject to public disclosure.
    (3) Failure to furnish a second copy when information is claimed as 
confidential in the first copy will be considered a presumptive waiver 
of the claim of confidentiality. EPA will notify the respondent by 
certified mail that a finding of a presumptive waiver of the claim of 
confidentiality has been made. The respondent will be given 30 days from 
the date of his or her receipt of this notification to submit the 
required second copy in accordance with the method specified in Sec. 
716.30(d). If the respondent fails to submit the second copy within the 
30 days, EPA will place the first copy in the docket.
    (c) If no claim of confidentiality accompanies a document at the 
time it is submitted to EPA, the document will be placed in an open file 
available to the public without further notice to the respondent.

[51 FR 32726, Sept. 15, 1986, as amended at 78 FR 72826, Dec. 4, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 716.60  Reporting schedule.

    (a) General requirements. Except as provided in Sec. 716.5 and 
paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, submissions under Sec. Sec. 
716.30 and 716.35 must be submitted using the electronic method 
specified in Sec. Sec. 716.30(c) and 716.35(c), on or before 60 days 
after the effective date of the listing of a substance or mixture in 
Sec. 716.120 or within 60 days of proposing to manufacture (including 
import) or process a listed substance or listed mixture (including as a 
known byproduct) if first done after the effective date of the substance 
or mixture being listed in Sec. 716.120.
    (b)(1) Submission of lists of initiated studies. Persons subject to 
the listing requirements of Sec. 716.35(a)(2) must inform EPA of the 
initiated study within 30 days of its initiation.
    (2) Submission of copies of completed studies. Persons must submit 
studies listed as ongoing or initiated under Sec. 716.35(a)(1) and (2) 
within 30 days of completing the study, using the method specified in 
Sec. Sec. 716.30(c) and 716.35(c).
    (c) Requests for extensions of time. Respondents who cannot meet a 
deadline under this section may apply for a reasonable extension of 
time. Extension requests must be submitted on or before 40 days after 
the effective date of the listing of a substance or mixture in Sec. 
716.120, using the electronic method specified in Sec. Sec. 716.30(c) 
and 716.35(c). The Director of EPA's Office of Pollution Prevention and 
Toxics will grant or deny extension requests.
    (d) Submission methods. Persons must use the CISS tool to complete 
and submit all data, reports, and other information required by 40 CFR 
part 716, via CDX. Submission requires registration with CDX, and must 
be made only as set forth in this section.
    (e) To access the CISS tool go to https://cdx.epa.gov/ssl/CSPP/
PrimaryAuthorizedOfficial/Home.aspx and follow the appropriate links and 
for further instructions to go http://www.epa.gov/oppt/chemtest/
ereporting/index.html.

[51 FR 32726, Sept. 15, 1986, as amended at 60 FR 34464, July 3, 1995; 
63 FR 15774, Apr. 1, 1998; 71 FR 47135, Aug. 16, 2006; 78 FR 72826, Dec. 
4, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 716.65  Reporting period.

    Unless otherwise required in a rule promulgated under 15 U.S.C. 
2607(d) relating to a listed chemical substance or listed mixture 
[hereinafter ``rule''], the reporting period for a listed chemical 
substance or listed mixture will terminate 60 days after the effective 
date on which the listed chemical substance or listed mixture is added 
to 40 CFR 716.120. EPA may require reporting for a listed chemical 
substance or listed

[[Page 94]]

mixture beyond the 60 day period in a rule promulgated under 15 U.S.C. 
2607(d), however EPA will not extend any reporting period later than 2 
years after the effective date on which a listed chemical substance or 
listed mixture is added to 40 CFR 716.120. After the applicable 
reporting period terminates, any person subject to the rule under 40 CFR 
716.5 (a)(2) or (a)(3) and who has submitted to EPA lists of ongoing or 
initiated studies under 40 CFR 716.35 (a)(1) or (a)(2) must submit a 
copy of any such study within 30 days after its completion, regardless 
of the study's completion date.

[63 FR 15774, Apr. 1, 1998]


<R04>
                  Subpart B_Specific Chemical Listings


<R05>
Sec. 716.105  Additions of substances and mixtures to which this 
subpart applies.

    The requirements of this subpart will be extended periodically to 
cover additional substances and mixtures. Two procedures will be used to 
add substances and mixtures.
    (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, substances 
and mixtures will be added to Sec. 716.120 after publication in the 
Federal Register of a notice of proposed amendment to this subpart. 
There will be at least a 30-day public comment period on the notice. 
After consideration of the comments, EPA will amend Sec. 716.120 by 
final rule to add the substances and listed mixtures.
    (b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, chemical 
substances, mixtures, and categories of chemical substances that have 
been added to the TSCA section 4(e) Priority List by the Interagency 
Testing Committee, established under section 4 of TSCA, will be added to 
Sec. 716.120 but only to the extent that the total number of designated 
and recommended substances, mixtures and categories of chemical 
substances has not exceeded 50 in any 1 year. The addition of such 
chemical substances, mixtures, and categories of chemical substances to 
Sec. 716.120 will be effective 30 days after publication of a notice to 
that effect in the Federal Register.
    (c) Prior to the effective date of an amendment under paragraph (b) 
of this section, the Assistant Administrator for Chemical Safety and 
Pollution Prevention may for good cause withdraw a chemical substance, 
mixture, or category of chemical substances from Sec. 716.120. Any 
information submitted showing why a chemical substance, mixture, or 
category of chemical substances should be withdrawn from the amendment 
must be received by EPA within 14 days after the date of publication of 
the notice under paragraph (b) of this section. If a chemical substance, 
mixture, or category of chemical substances is withdrawn, a Federal 
Register notice announcing this decision will be published no later than 
the effective date of the amendment under paragraph (b) of this section.
    (d) Persons who wish to submit information that shows why a 
substance should be withdrawn must submit their comments by using the 
CISS tool to complete and submit all data, reports, and other 
information required by 40 CFR part 716, via CDX. Submission requires 
registration with CDX, and must be made only as set forth in this 
section.
    (e) To access the CISS tool go to https://cdx.epa.gov/ssl/CSPP/
PrimaryAuthorizedOfficial/Home.aspx and follow the appropriate links and 
for further instructions to go http://www.epa.gov/oppt/chemtest/
ereporting/index.html.

[51 FR 32726, Sept. 15, 1986, as amended at 60 FR 34464, July 3, 1995; 
71 FR 47135, Aug. 16, 2006; 77 FR 46292, Aug. 3, 2012; 78 FR 72827, Dec. 
4, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 716.120  Substances and listed mixtures to which this subpart
applies.

    Substances listed in this section appear in order by Chemical 
Abstract Service Registry Number. Chemical mixtures and categories are 
listed separately and by alphabetical order. Chemical substances listed 
within a category are provided only as examples of the category, and are 
not included on the list of substances. When a chemical substance in the 
substance or category list had been listed previously by a trivial (or 
common) name, it appears first, followed by the Chemical Abstract 
Service (CAS) name appearing in

[[Page 95]]

the TSCA Chemical Substance Inventory.
    (a) List of substances. The following chemical substances are 
subject to all the provisions of part 716. Manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of a listed substance are subject to the reporting 
requirements of subpart A for that substance.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                           Effective    Sunset
  CAS No.                    Substance                         Special exemptions            date        date
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    62-74-8  Acetic acid, fluoro-, sodium salt........  ................................    03/07/86    03/07/96
    67-63-0  2-Propanol...............................  ................................    12/15/86    12/15/96
    67-66-3  Methane, trichloro-......................  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
    67-72-1  Ethane, hexachloro-......................  ................................    04/29/83    01/13/86
    68-12-2  Dimethyl formamide-Formamide, N,N-         ................................     4/13/89    12/19/95
              dimethyl-.
    71-55-6  1,1,1-Trichloroethane--Ethane, 1,1,1-      ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
              trichloro-.
    74-83-9  Methane, bromo-..........................  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
    74-87-3  Chloromethane--Methane, chloro-..........  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
    74-95-3  Methane, dibromo-........................  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
    74-97-5  Methane, bromochloro-....................  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
    75-00-3  Ethane, chloro-..........................  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
    75-02-5  Vinyl fluoride--Ethene, fluoro-..........  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
    75-04-7  Ethanamine...............................  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
    75-05-8  Acetonitrile.............................  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
    75-09-2  Methylene chloride--Methane, dichloro-...  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
    75-12-7  Formamide................................  ................................    04/29/83    04/29/93
    75-21-8  Oxirane..................................  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
    75-25-2  Methane, tribromo-.......................  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
    75-27-4  Methane, bromodichloro-..................  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
    75-29-6  Propane, 2-chloro-.......................  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
    75-34-3  Ethane, 1,1-dichloro-....................  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
    75-37-6  1,1-Difluoroethane-Ethane, 1,1-difluoro-.  ................................     4/13/89    12/19/95
    75-38-7  Vinylidene fluoride--Ethene, 1,1-difluoro- ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
              .
    75-43-4  Dichloromonofluoromethane-Methane,         ................................     4/13/89    12/19/95
              dichlorofluoro-.
    75-45-6  Chlorodifluoromethane--Methane,            ................................     4/13/89     6/30/98
              chlorodifluoro-.
    75-52-5  Nitromethane-Methane, nitro-.............  ................................     4/13/89    12/19/95
    75-56-9  Oxirane, methyl-.........................  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
    75-68-3  1-Chloro-1,1-difluoroethane-Ethane, 1-     ................................     4/13/89    12/19/95
              chloro-1,1-difluoro.
    75-86-5  Propanenitrile, 2-hydroxy-2-methyl-......  ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
    75-88-7  Ethane, 2-chloro- 1,1,1-trifluoro........  ................................    10/15/90    11/09/93
    76-13-1  1,1,2-Trichloro-1,2,2-trifluoroethane-     ................................     4/13/89    12/19/95
              Ethane, 1,1,2-trichloro-1,2,2-trifluoro-
              1.
    77-47-4  Hexachlorocyclopentadiene--1,3-            ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
              Cyclopentadiene, 1,2,3,4,5,5-hexachloro-.
    77-58-7  Dibutyltin dilaurate--Stannane,            ................................    01/03/83    01/03/93
              dibutylbis[(1-oxododecyl)oxy]-.
    78-59-1  Isophorone--2-Cyclohexen-1-one, 3,5,5-     ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
              trimethyl-.
    78-83-1  1-Propanol, 2-methyl-....................  ................................    03/07/86    03/07/96
    78-87-5  1,2-Dichloropropane--Propane, 1,2-         ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
              dichloro-.
    78-88-6  1-Propene, 2,3-dichloro-.................  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
    78-93-3  Methyl ethyl ketone--2-Butanone..........  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
    78-97-7  Propanenitrile, 2-hydroxy-...............  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
    78-99-9  Propane, 1,1-dichloro-...................  ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
    79-00-5  Ethane, 1,1,2-trichloro-.................  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
    79-06-1  Acrylamide--2-Propenamide................  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
    79-24-3  Nitroethane-Ethane, nitro-...............  ................................     4/13/89    12/19/95
    79-94-7  Tetrabromobisphenol A--Phenol, 4,4'-       ................................    06/20/85    06/20/95
              (methylethylidene)bis[2,6-dibromo-.
    80-05-7  Bisphenol A--Phenol, 4,4'-(1-              ................................    06/28/84    06/28/94
              methylethylidene)bis-.
    80-15-9  Hydroperoxide, 1-methyl-1-phenylethyl....  ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
    80-62-6  Methyl methacrylate--2-Propenoic acid, 2-  ................................     4/13/89     6/30/98
              methyl-, methyl ester.
    84-65-1  Anthraquinone--9,10-Anthracenedione......  ................................    12/28/84    11/09/93
    85-22-3  Pentabromoethylbenzene--Benzene,           ................................    12/28/84    12/28/94
              pentabromoethyl-.
    85-68-7  Benzyl butyl phthalate--1,2-               ................................    04/29/83    04/29/93
              Benzenedicarboxylic acid, butyl
              phenylmethyl ester.
    86-74-8  9H-Carbazole.............................  ................................    03/07/86    03/07/96
    87-68-3  Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene--1,3-Butadiene,   ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
              1,1,2,3,4,4-hexachloro-.
    88-04-0  p-Chloro-m-xylenol-Phenol, 4-chloro-3,5-   ................................    l4/13/89    12/19/95
              dimethyl-.
    90-30-2  N-Phenyl-1-naphthylamine.................  ................................     9/30/91    12/19/95
    90-42-6  [1,1'-Bicyclohexyl]-2-one................  ................................    06/01/87    11/09/93
    91-08-7  Benzene, 1,3-diisocyanato-2-methyl-......  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
    91-20-3  Naphthalene..............................  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
    91-58-7  Naphthalene, 2-chloro-...................  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
    92-52-4  1,1'-Biphenyl............................  ................................    04/29/83    04/29/93
    92-69-3  [1,1'-Biphenyl]-4-ol.....................  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
    92-84-2  10H-Phenothiazine........................  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97

[[Page 96]]

 
    92-87-5  [1,1'-Biphenyl]-4,4'-diamine.............  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
    95-14-7  1,2,3-Benzotriazole-1H-Benzotriazole.....  ................................     4/13/89    12/19/95
    95-47-6  o-Xylene--Benzene, 1,2-dimethyl-.........  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
    95-48-7  o-Cresol--Phenol, 2-methyl-..............  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
    95-49-8  2/Chlorotoluene--Benzene, 1-chloro-2-      ................................    04/29/83    04/29/93
              methyl-.
    95-53-4  Benzenamine, 2-methyl-...................  ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
    95-63-6  1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene--Benzene, 1,2,4-    ................................    04/29/83    04/29/93
              trimethyl-.
    96-18-4  Propane, 1,2,3-trichloro-................  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
    96-29-7  2-Butanone, oxime........................  ................................    12/15/86    12/19/95
    96-37-7  Methylcyclopentane--Cyclopentane, methyl-  ................................    06/20/85    11/09/93
    97-18-7  Phenol, 2,2'-thiobis[4,6-dichloro-.......  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
    97-23-4  Phenol, 2,2'-methylenebis[4-chloro-......  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
    97-88-1  Butyl methacrylate-2-Propenoic acid, 2-    ................................     4/13/89    12/19/95
              methyl-,butyl ester.
    98-01-1  2-Furancarboxaldehyde....................  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
    98-06-6  Benzene, (1,1-dimethylethyl)-............  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
    98-09-9  Benzenesulfonyl chloride.................  ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
    98-51-1  p-tert-Butyltoluene--Benzene, 1-(1,1-      ................................    06/25/86    06/25/96
              dimethylethyl)-4-methyl-.
    98-56-6  4-Chlorobenzotrifluoride--Benzene, 1-      ................................    04/29/83    04/29/93
              chloro-4-(trifluoromethyl)-.
    98-73-7  p-tert-Butylbenzoic acid-Benzoic acid, 4-  ................................     6/25/86    12/19/95
              (1,1-dimethylethyl)-.
    98-82-8  Cumene--Benzene, (1-methylethyl)-........  ................................    12/28/84    12/28/94
    98-83-9  Benzene, (1-methylethenyl)-..............  ................................    06/01/87    11/09/93
    98-95-3  Nitrobenzene--Benzene, nitro-............  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
   100-02-7  p-Nitrophenol--Phenol, 4-nitro-..........  ................................     4/13/89     6/30/98
   100-40-3  4-Vinylcyclohexene.......................  ................................     1/11/90    11/09/93
   100-41-4  Benzene, ethyl-..........................  ................................    06/19/87    06/19/97
   100-48-1  4-Pyridinecarbonitrile...................  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/87
   100-54-9  3-Pyridinecarbonitrile...................  ................................    06/01/87    12/29/88
   100-70-9  2-Pyridinecarbonitrile...................  ................................    06/01/87    11/09/93
   101-68-8  Benzene, 1,1'-methylenebis[4-isocyanato-.  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
   101-77-9  Benzenamine, 4,4'-methylenebis-..........  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
   101-84-8  Diphenyl oxide--Benzene, 1,1'-oxybis-....  ................................     4/13/89     6/30/98
   102-71-6  Triethanolamine-Ethanol, 2,2',2''-         ................................     4/13/89    12/19/95
              nitrilotris-.
   104-49-4  Benzene, 1,4-diisocyanato-...............  ................................    06/01/87    11/09/93
   104-51-8  Benzene, butyl-..........................  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
   104-76-7  1-Hexanol, 2-ethyl-......................  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
   105-60-2  2H-Azepin-2-one, hexahydro-..............  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
   106-42-3  p-Xylene--Benzene, 1,4-dimethyl-.........  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
   106-43-4  Benzene, 1-chloro-4-methyl-..............  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
   106-44-5  p-Cresol--Phenol, 4-methyl-..............  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
   106-49-0  Benzenamine, 4-methyl-...................  ................................    03/07/86    03/07/96
   106-50-3  p-Phenylenediamine--1,4-Benzenediamine...  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
   106-51-4  Quinone--2,5-Cyclohexadiene-1,4-dione....  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
   106-88-7  Oxirane, ethyl-..........................  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
   106-89-8  Oxirane, (chloromethyl)-.................  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
   107-06-2  Ethane, 1,2-dichloro-....................  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
   107-10-8  1-Propanamine............................  ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
   107-19-7  2-Propyn-1-ol............................  ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
   107-98-2  1-Methoxy-2-propanol--2-Propanol, 1-       ................................     4/13/89     6/30/98
              methoxy-.
   108-05-4  Vinyl acetate--Acetic acid ethenyl ester.  ................................    02/10/86    02/10/96
   108-10-1  Methyl isobutyl ketone--2-Pentanone, 4-    ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
              methyl-.
   108-31-6  Maleic anhydride--2,5-Furandione.........  ................................    09/10/84    09/10/94
   108-38-3  m-Xylene--Benzene, 1,3-dimethyl-.........  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
   108-39-4  m-Cresol--Phenol, 3-methyl-..............  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
   108-60-1  Propane, 2,2'-oxybis[1-chloro-...........  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
   108-67-8  1,3,5-Trimethylbenezene--Benzene, 1,3,5-   ................................    02/13/84    02/13/94
              trimethyl-.
   108-86-1  Benzene, bromo-..........................  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
   108-88-3  Toluene--Benzene, methyl-................  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
   108-89-4  4-Methylpyridine--Pyridine, 4-methyl-....  ................................    09/10/84    09/10/94
   108-94-1  Cyclohexanone............................  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
   108-95-2  Phenol...................................  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
   108-95-5  Thiophenol...............................  ................................     1/26/94    12/19/95
   108-98-5  Benzenethiol.............................  ................................    03/07/86    03/07/96
   108-99-6  3-Methylpyridine--Pyridine, 3-methyl-....  ................................    09/10/84    09/10/94
   109-06-8  2-Methylpyridine--Pyridine, 2-methyl-....  ................................    09/10/84    09/10/94
   109-77-3  Propanedinitrile.........................  ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
   109-87-5  Methane, Dimethoxy-......................  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
   109-89-7  Ethanamine, N-ethyl-.....................  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
   110-75-8  Ethene, (2-chloroethoxy)-................  ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
   110-82-7  Cyclohexane..............................  ................................    12/19/85    12/19/95
   110-86-1  Pyridine.................................  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
   111-21-7  Ethylene bisoxyethylene diacetate--        ................................    01/13/84    12/29/88
              Ethanol, 2,2']-[1,2-
              ethanediylbis(oxy)]bis-, diacetate.
   111-40-0  Diethylenetriamine--1,2-Ethanediamine, N-  ................................    04/29/83    04/29/93
              (2-aminoethyl)-.

[[Page 97]]

 
   111-42-2  Diethanolamine--Ethanol, 2,2'-iminobis-..  ................................     4/13/89     6/30/98
   111-69-3  Hexanedinitrile..........................  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
   111-76-2  2-Butoxyethanol--Ethanol, 2-butoxy-......  ................................     4/13/89     6/30/98
   111-77-3  Diethylene glycol monomethyl ether-        ................................     4/13/89    12/19/95
              Ethanol, 2-(2-methoxyethoxy)-.
   111-90-0  Diethylene glycol monoethyl ether-         ................................     4/13/89    12/19/95
              Ethanol, 2-(2-ethoxyethoxy)-.
   111-91-1  Ethane, 1,1'-[methylenebis(oxy)]bis[2-     ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
              chloro-.
   111-92-2  1-Butanamine, N-butyl-...................  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
   112-35-6  Triethyleneglycol monomethyl ether--       ................................    06/20/85    06/20/95
              Ethanol, 2-[2-(2-methoxyethoxy)ethoxy]-.
   112-50-5  Triethyleneglycol monoethyl ether--        ................................    06/20/85    06/20/95
              Ethanol, 2-[2-(2-ethoxyethoxy)ethoxy]-.
   112-90-3  Oleylamine--9-Octadecen-1-amine, (Z)-....  ................................    01/13/84    01/13/94
   115-28-6  Chlorendic acid--Bicyclo[2.2.1] hept-5-    ................................    04/29/83    01/13/86
              ene-2,3-dicarboxylic acid, 1,4,5,6,7,7-
              hexachloro-.
   115-96-8  Ethanol, 2-chloro-, phosphate (3:1)......  ................................    12/16/88    11/09/93
   118-79-6  2,4,6-Tribromophenol.....................  ................................     1/11/90     6/30/98
   120-20-7  Anthracene...............................  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
   120-32-1  2-Benzyl-4-chlorophenol-Phenol, 4-chloro-  ................................     4/13/89    12/19/95
              2-chlorophenol(phenyl methyl)-.
   121-44-8  Ethanamine, N,N-diethyl-.................  ................................    01/13/84    01/13/94
   121-47-1  Benzenesulfonic acid, 3-amino-...........  ................................    06/01/87    12/29/88
   122-09-8  Benzeneethanamine, alpha,alpha-dimethyl-.  ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
   122-66-7  Hydrazine, 1,2-diphenyl-.................  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
   122-99-6  2-Phenoxyethanol--Ethanol, 2-phenoxy-....  ................................    07/01/83    07/01/93
   123-31-9  Hydroquinone--1,4-Benzenediol............  ................................    10/04/84    10/04/94
   123-61-5  Benzene, 1,3-diisocyanato-...............  ................................    06/01/87    11/09/93
   123-72-8  Butanal..................................  ................................    12/16/88    12/19/95
   124-16-3  1-Butoxyethoxy-2-propanol-2-Propanol, 1-   ................................     4/13/89    12/19/95
              (2-butoxyethoxy)-.
   124-17-4  2-(2-Butoxyethoxy)ethyl acetate--Ethanol,  ................................    01/13/82    01/13/92
              2-(2-butoxyethoxy)-, acetate.
   124-48-1  Methane, dibromochloro-..................  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
   126-73-8  Phosphoric acid, tributyl ester..........  ................................    06/18/86    06/18/96
   126-99-8  Chloroprene--1,3-Butadiene, 2-chloro-....  ................................    12/28/84    12/28/94
   127-18-4  Ethene, tetrachloro-.....................  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
   128-39-2  Phenol, 2,6-bis(1,1-dimethylethyl)-......  ................................    12/19/85    11/09/93
   128-86-9  2,6-Anthracenedisulfonic acid, 4,8-        ................................    12/21/87    11/09/93
              diamino-9,10-dihydro-1,5-dihydroxy-9,10-
              dioxo-.
   129-00-0  Pyrene...................................  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
   131-17-9  Diallyl phthalate-1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic  ................................     4/13/89    12/19/95
              acid, di-2-propenyl ester.
   135-98-8  Benzene, (1-methylpropyl)-...............  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
   136-35-6  1-Triazene, 1,3-diphenyl-................  Sec. 716.21(a)(5)                   6/3/04      8/2/04
   137-20-2  Soldium N-methyl-N-oleoyltaurine--         ................................    12/28/84    12/28/94
              Ethanesulfonic acid, 2-[methyl (1-oxo-9-
              octadecenyl)amino]-, sodium salt, (Z)-.
   137-26-8  Thioperoxydicarbonic diamide, tetramethyl- ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
              .
   139-25-3  Benzene, 1,1 \1\-methylenebis[4-           ................................    06/01/87    11/09/93
              isocyanato-3-methyl-.
   140-08-9  Tris(2-chloroethyl)phosphite--Ethanol, 2-  ................................    04/29/83    01/13/86
              chloro-, phosphite (3:1).
   140-66-9  4-(1,1,3,3-Tetramethylbutyl) phenol--      ................................    01/30/83    12/29/88
              Phenol, 4-(1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutyl)-.
   140-88-5  Ethyl acrylate--2-Propenoic acid, ethyl    ................................     4/13/89     6/30/98
              ester.
   141-79-7  Mesityl oxide--3-Penten-2-one, 4-methyl-.  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
   142-28-9  Propane, 1,3,-dichloro-..................  ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
   142-84-7  1-Propanamine, N-propyl-.................  ................................    03/07/86     12/5/90
   143-22-6  Triethyleneglycol monobutyl ether--        ................................    06/20/85    06/20/95
              Ethanol, 2-[-2-(2-butoxyethoxy)ethoxy]-.
   143-33-9  Sodium cyanide...........................  ................................    10/29/90    12/19/95
   149-30-4  Mercaptobenzothiazole--2(3H-               ................................    12/28/84    12/28/94
              Benzothiazolethione.
   149-57-5  2-Ethylhexanoic acid--Hexanoic acid, 2-    ................................    06/28/84    06/28/94
              ethyl-.
   306-83-2  Ethane, 2,2-dichloro-1,1,1-trifluoro.....  ................................    10/15/90    11/09/93
   328-84-7  3,4-Dichlorobenzotrifluoride--Benzene,     ................................    05/08/85    11/09/93
              1,2-dichloro-4-(trifluoromethyl)-.
   354-33-6  Ethane, pentafluoro......................  ................................    10/15/90    11/09/93
   357-57-3  Strychnidin-10-one, 2,3-dimethoxy-.......  ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
   428-59-1  Oxirane, trifluoro(trifluoromethyl)-.....  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
   496-46-8  Imidazo[4,5-d]imidazole-2,5(1H,3H)-dione,  Sec. 716.21(a)(1).............      6/3/04      8/2/04
              tetrahydro-.
   472-41-3  Phenol, 4-(3,4-dihydro-2,2,4-trimethyl-2H- ................................    06/01/87    12/29/88
              1-benzopyran-4-yl)-.
   506-96-7  Acetyl bromide...........................  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
   526-73-8  1,2,3-Trimethylbenzene--Benzene, 1,2,3-    ................................    02/13/84    11/09/93
              trimethyl-.
   530-50-7  Hydrazine, 1,1-diphenyl-.................  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
   534-07-6  2-Propanone, 1,3-dichloro-...............  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
   540-54-5  Propane, 1-chloro-.......................  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
   540-84-1  Pentane, 2,2,4-trimethyl-................  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95

[[Page 98]]

 
   542-75-6  1-Propene, 1,3-dichloro-.................  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
   556-67-2  Octamethylcyclotetrasiloxane--Cyclotetras  ................................    12/28/84    12/28/94
              iloxane, octamethyl-.
   563-54-2  1-Propene, 1,2-dichloro-.................  ................................    03/07/86    12/29/88
   563-58-6  1-Propene, 1,1-dichloro-.................  ................................    03/07/86    12/29/88
   580-51-8  [1,1'-Biphenyl]-3-ol.....................  ................................    06/01/87    11/09/93
   584-84-9  Benzene, 2,4-diisocyanato-1-methyl-......  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
   591-08-2  Acetamide, N-(aminothioxomethyl)-........  ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
   594-20-7  Propane, 2,2-dichloro-...................  ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
   598-21-0  Acetyl bromide, bromo-...................  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
   598-31-2  2-Propanone, 1-bromo-....................  ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
   616-23-9  1-Propanol, 2,3-dichloro-................  ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
   620-14-4  m-Ethyltoluene--Benzene, 1-ethyl-3-methyl- ................................    04/29/83    04/29/93
              .
   622-96-8  p-Ethyltoluene--Benzene, 1-ethyl-4-methyl- ................................    04/29/83    04/29/93
              .
   630-20-6  Ethane, 1,1,1,2-tetrachloro-.............  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
   632-79-1  Tetrabromophthalic anhydride.............  ................................     1/11/90    12/19/95
   637-92-3  Ethyl-tert-butyl ether                     Sec. 716.20(b)(3) applies         12/28/94     6/30/98
   646-06-0  1,3-Dioxolane............................  ................................    01/03/83    01/03/93
   677-21-4  Trifluoromethylethene--1-Propene, 3,3,3-   ................................    04/29/83    01/13/86
              trifluoro-.
   685-91-6  Acetamide, N,N-diethyl-..................  ................................    06/01/87    11/09/93
   692-42-2  Arsine, diethyl-.........................  ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
   696-28-6  Arsonous dichloride, phenyl-.............  ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
   757-58-4  Tetraphosphoric acid, hexaethyl ester....  ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
   811-97-2  Ethane, 1,1,2-tetrafluoro-...............  ................................    10/15/90    11/09/93
   812-03-3  Propane, 1,1,1,2-tetrachloro-............  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
   822-06-0  Hexane, 1,6-diisocyanato-................  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
   828-00-2  1,3-Dioxan-4-ol, 2,6-dimethyl-, acetate..  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
   930-22-3  Oxirane, ethenyl-........................  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
   939-97-9  p-tert-Butylbenzaldehyde--Benzaldehyde, 4- ................................    06/25/86    11/09/93
              (1,1-dimethylethyl)-.
   994-05-8  Tert-amyl methyl ether                     Sec. 716.20(b)(3) applies         12/28/94    06/30/98
  1000-82-4  Methylolurea--Urea, (hydroxymethyl)-.....  ................................    07/01/83    07/01/93
  1070-78-6  Propane, 1,1,1,3-tetrachloro-............  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
  1163-19-5  Decabromodiphenyl ether..................  ................................     1/11/90    06/30/98
  1185-81-5  Dibutyltin bis(lauryl mercaptide)--        ................................    01/03/83    01/03/93
              Stannane, dibutylbis(dodecylthio).
  1208-52-2  Benzenamine, 2-[(4-aminophenyl)methyl]-..  ................................    06/01/87    11/09/93
  1300-71-6  Phenol, dimethyl-........................  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
  1309-64-4  Antimony trioxide........................  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
  1321-38-6  Benzene, diisocyanatomethyl-(unspecified   ................................    06/01/87    11/09/93
              isomer).
  1321-64-8  Naphthalene, pentachloro-................  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
  1321-65-9  Naphthalene, trichloro-..................  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
  1331-47-1  [1,1'-Biphenyl]-4,4'-diamino, dichloro-..  ................................    06/01/87    11/09/93
  1333-41-1  Methyl pyridine--Pyridine, methyl-.......  ................................    09/10/84    12/29/88
  1335-87-1  Naphthalene, hexachloro-.................  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
  1335-88-2  Naphthalene, tetrachloro-................  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
  1345-04-6  Antimony trisulfide......................  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
  1464-53-5  2,2'-Bioxirane...........................  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
  1634-04-4  Propane, 2-methoxy-2-methyl-.............  ................................    12/15/86    12/15/96
  1649-08-7  Ethane, 1,2-dichloro-1,1-difluoro........  ................................    10/15/90    12/19/95
  1717-00-6  Ethane, 1,1-dichloro-1-fluoro-...........  ................................    10/15/90    11/09/93
  1825-30-5  Naphthalene, 1,5-dichloro-...............  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
  1825-31-6  Naphthalene, 1,4-dichloro-...............  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
  1888-71-7  1-Propene, 1,1,2,3,3,3-hexachloro-.......  ................................      3/7/87    12/19/95
  2050-69-3  Naphthalene, 1,2-dichloro-...............  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
  2050-72-8  Naphthalene, 1,6-dichloro-...............  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
  2050-73-9  Naphthalene, 1,7-dichloro-...............  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
  2050-74-0  Naphthalene, 1,8-dichloro-...............  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
  2050-75-1  Naphthalene, 2,3-dichloro-...............  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
  2065-70-5  Naphthalene, 2,6-dichloro-...............  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
  2198-75-6  Naphthalene, 1,3-dichloro-...............  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
  2198-77-8  Naphthalene, 2,7-dichloro-...............  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
  2234-13-1  Naphthalene, octachloro-.................  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
  2536-05-2  Benzene, 1,1'-methylenebis[2-isocyanato-.  ................................    06/01/87    11/09/93
  2556-36-7  Cyclohexane, 1,4-diisocyanato............  ................................    06/01/87    11/09/93
  2763-96-4  3(2H)-Isoxazolone, 5-(aminomethyl)-......  ................................      3/7/86     2/19/95
  2778-42-9  Benzene, 1,3-bis(1-isocyanato-1-           ................................    06/01/87    11/09/93
              methylethyl-.
  2861-02-1  2,6-Anthracenedisulfonic acid, 4,8-        ................................    12/21/87    12/19/95
              diamino-9,10-dihydro-1,5-dihydroxy-9,10-
              dioxo-, disodium salt
  2873-89-0  Ethane, 2-chloro-1,1,1,2-tetrafluoro-....  ................................    10/15/90    11/09/93
  3083-25-8  Oxirane, (2,2,2-trichloroethyl)-.........  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
  3173-72-6  Naphthalene, 1,5,-diisocyanato-..........  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
  3194-55-6  Hexabromocyclododecane...................  ................................     1/11/90    12/19/95

[[Page 99]]

 
  3278-89-5  Benzene, 1,3,5-tribromo-2-(2-propenyloxy)- Sec. 716.21(a)(4).............      6/3/04      8/2/04
              .
  3288-58-2  Phosphorodithioic acid, O,O-diethyl-S-     ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
              methyl ester.
  3296-90-0  1,3-Propanediol, 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-...  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
  3319-31-1  Tris(2-ethylhexyl) trimellitate--1,2,4-    ................................    01/03/83    01/03/93
              Benzenetricarboxylic acid, tris(2-
              ethylhexyl)ester.
  3322-93-8  1,2-Dibromo-4-(1,2-dibromoethyl)           ................................    06/28/84    12/29/88
              cyclohexane--Cyclohexane, 1,2-dibromo-4-
              (1,2-dibromoethyl)-.
  3389-71-7  1,2,3,4,7,7-Hexachloronorbornadiene--      ................................    01/13/84    01/13/94
              Bicyclo[2.2.1]hepta-2,5-diene,
              1,2,3,4,7,7-hexachloro-.
  3618-72-2  Acetamide, N-[5-[bis[2-                    ................................    06/19/87    11/09/93
              (acetyloxy)ethyl]amino]-2-[(2-bromo-4,6-
              dinitrophenyl)azo]-4- methoxyphenyl]-.
  3618-73-3  Acetamide, N-[5-[bis[2-                    ................................    06/19/87    11/09/93
              (acetyloxy)ethyl]amino]-2-[(2-chloro-4,6-
              dinitrophenyl)azo]-4-methoxyphenyl]-.
  3956-55-6  Acetamide, N-[5-[bis[2-(acetyloxy)ethyl]-  ................................    12/15/86    11/09/93
              amino]-2-[(2-bromo-4,6-
              dinitrophenyl)azo]-4-ethoxyphenyl.
  4098-71-9  Cyclohexane, 5-isocyanato-1-               ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
              (isocyanatomethyl)-1,3,3-trimethyl-.
  4170-30-3  2-Butenal................................  ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
  5124-30-1  Cyclohexane, 1,1'-methylenebis[4-          ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
              isocyanato-.
  5131-66-8  1-Butoxy-2-propanol-2-Propanol, 1-butoxy-  ................................     4/13/89    12/19/95
  5344-82-1  Thiourea, (2-chlorophenyl)-..............  ................................      3/7/86    12/19/95
  5873-54-1  Benzene, 1-isocyanato-2-[4-                ................................    06/01/87    11/09/93
              isocyanatophenyl)methyl]-.
  6145-73-9  1-Propanol, 2-chloro-, phosphate (3:1)...  ................................    12/16/88    11/09/93
  6247-34-3  2-Anthracenesulfonic acid, 4-[[4-          ................................    12/21/87    11/09/93
              (acetylamino)phenyl]amino]-1-amino-9,10-
              dihydro-9,10-dioxo-.
  6422-86-2  Bis(2-ethylhexyl) terephthalate--1,4-      ................................    01/03/83    01/03/93
              Benzenedicarboxylic acid, bis(2-
              ethylhexyl) ester.
  6424-85-7  2-Anthracenesulfonic acid, 4-[[4-          ................................    12/21/87    12/19/95
              (acetylamino)phenyl]amino]- 1-amino-9,10-
              dihydro-9,10-dioxo-, monosodium salt.
  7320-37-8  Oxirane, tetradecyl-.....................  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
  7440-28-0  Thallium.................................  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
  7440-36-0  Antimony.................................  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
  7440-48-4  Cobalt...................................  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
  7723-14-0  White phosphorus.........................  ................................    04/12/93    06/30/98
  9011-05-6  Urea, polymer with formaldehyde..........  Sec. 716.20(b)(1) applies.....    06/03/85    06/03/95
  9016-87-9  Isocyanic acid,                            ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
              polymethylenepolyphenylene ester.
 10347-54-3  Cyclohexane, 1,4-bis(isocyanatomethyl)-..  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/87
 10436-39-2  1-Propene, 1,1,2,3-tetrachloro-..........  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
 12001-85-3  Naphthenic acids, zinc salts.............  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
 12185-10-3  White phosphorus.........................  ................................    01/26/94    06/30/98
 12217-79-7  9,10-Anthracenedione, 1,5-diamino-chloro-  ................................    12/21/87    11/09/93
              4,8-dihydroxy-.
 13414-54-5  Methallyl 2-nitrophenyl ether--Benzene, 1- ................................    02/13/84    11/09/93
              [(2-methyl-2-propenyl)oxy]-2-nitro-.
 13414-55-6  7-Nitro-2,2-dimethyl-2,3-dihydro-          ................................    02/13/84    02/13/94
              benzofuran--Benzofuran, 2,3-dihydro-2,2-
              dimethyl-7-nitro-.
 13674-84-5  2-Propanol, 1-chloro-, phosphate (3:1)...  ................................    12/16/88    11/09/93
 13674-87-8  2-Propanol, 1,3-dichloro-, phosphate       ................................    12/16/88    12/19/95
              (3:1).
 15646-96-5  Hexane, 1,6-diisocyanato-2,4,4-trimethyl-  ................................    06/01/87    11/09/93
 16691-43-3  3H-1,2,4-Triazole-3-thione, 5-amino-1,2-   Sec. 716.21(a)(1).............      6/3/04      8/2/04
              dihydro-.
 16938-22-0  Hexane, 1,6-diisocyanato-2,2,4-trimethyl-  ................................    06/01/87    11/09/93
 17418-58-5  9,10-Anthracenedione, 1-amino-4-hydroxy-2- ................................    12/21/87    12/19/95
              phenoxy-.
 18495-30-2  Propane, 1,1,2,3-tetrachloro-............  ................................    06/01/87    12/29/88
 18633-25-5  Oxirane, tridecyl-.......................  ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
 19660-16-3  2-Propenoic acid, 2,3-dibromopropyl ester  ................................    06/01/87    12/29/88
 21429-43-6  Acetamide, N-[5-[bis[2-                    ................................    06/19/87    11/09/93
              (acetyloxy)ethyl]amino]-2-[(2-chloro-4,6-
              dinitrophenyl)azo]-4-methoxyphenyl]-.
 25168-06-3  Isopropyl phenol--Phenol, (1-methylethyl)- ................................    04/13/89    11/09/93
              .
 25168-21-2  Dibutyltin bis (isooctyl maleate)--2-      ................................    01/03/83    01/03/93
              Butenoic acid, 4,4'-
              [(dibutylstannylene)bis(oxy)]bis-[4-oxo-
              , diisoctyl ester, (Z,Z)-.
 25498-49-1  Tripropylene glycol monomethyl ether-      ................................     4/13/89    12/19/95
              Propanol, [2-(2-methoxy
              methylethoxy)methylethoxy]-.
 25550-14-5  Benzene, ethylmethyl- (mixed isomers)....  ................................    04/29/83    04/29/93
 25550-98-5  Phosphorous acid, diisodecyl phenyl ester  ................................    12/19/85    12/19/95
 25551-13-7  Trimethylbenzene--Benzene, trimethyl-      ................................    02/13/84    02/13/94
              (mixed isomers).
 25640-78-2  Isopropyl biphenyl--1,1'-Biphenyl, (1-     ................................    06/28/84    11/09/93
              methylethyl)-.
 25852-70-4  Monobutyltin tris (isooctyl) mercapto-     ................................    01/03/83    01/03/93
              acetate--Acetic acid, 2,2',2''-
              [(butylstannylidyne)tris(thio)]tris-,
              triisooctyl ester.
 26447-40-5  Benzene, 1,1'-methylenebis[isocyanato-...  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
 26471-62-5  Benzene, 1,3-diisocyanatomethyl-.........  ................................    06/01/87    06/01/97
 26530-20-1  3(2H)-Isothiazolone, 2-octyl-............  ................................    06/01/87    12/29/88
 26952-23-8  1-Propene, dichloro-.....................  ................................      6/1/87    12/19/95
 29091-20-1  Benzenamine, 3-chloro-2,6-dinitro-N,N-     Sec. 716.21(a)(2).............      6/3/04      8/2/04
              dipropyl-4-(trifluoromethyl)-.

[[Page 100]]

 
 29385-43-1  Tolyl triazole-1H-Benzotriazole, methyl-.  ................................     4/13/89    12/19/95
 32052-51-0  Isocyanic acid, trimethylcyclohexyl ester  ................................    06/01/87    11/09/93
 32534-81-9  Pentabromodiphenyl ether.................  ................................     1/11/90    06/30/98
 32536-52-0  Octabromodiphenyl ether..................  ................................     1/11/90    06/30/98
 32588-76-4  Ethylene Bis-(tetrabromophthalimide).....  ................................     1/11/90    12/19/95
 33125-86-9  Phosphoric acid, 1,2-ethanediyl tetrakis   ................................    12/16/88    11/09/93
              (2-chloroethyl) ester.
 34590-94-8  Dipropylene glycol monomethyl ether--      ................................     4/13/89     6/30/98
              Propanol, (2-methoxymethylethoxy)-.
 37853-59-1  1,2-Bis(tribromophenoxy) ethane..........  ................................     1/11/90    06/30/98
 38661-72-2  Cyclohexane, 1,3-bis(isocyanatomethyl)-..  ................................    06/01/87    11/09/93
 41291-34-3  Ethylene(5,6-dibromonorbornane-2,3-        ................................     1/11/90    12/19/95
              dicarboximide).
 52907-07-0  Ethylene bis(5,6-dibromonorbornane-2,3-    ................................     1/26/94    12/19/95
              dicarboximide.
 57137-10-7  Tribrominated polystyrene................  ................................     1/11/90    12/19/95
 61262-53-1  Ethylene bis(pentabromophenoxide)........  ................................     1/11/90    12/19/95
 61788-33-8  Terphenyl, chlorinated...................  ................................    10/04/82    12/29/88
 61789-36-4  Calcium naphthenate--Naphthenic acids,     ................................    07/01/83    07/01/93
              calcium salts.
 61789-51-3  Cobalt naphthenate--Naphthenic acids,      ................................    07/01/83    07/01/93
              cobalt salts.
 61790-14-5  Lead naphthenate--Naphthenic acids, lead   ................................    07/01/83    07/01/93
              salts.
 64742-95-6  Solvent naphtha (petroleum), light arom..  ................................     2/13/84     2/13/94
 68081-84-5  Oxirane, mono[(C10	16-alkyloxy) methyl]    ................................    10/04/82    10/04/92
              derivatives.
 68122-86-1  Imidazolium compounds, 4,5-dihydro-1-      ................................     6/20/88    12/19/95
              methyl-2-nortallow alkyl-1-(2-tallow
              amidoethyl), methyl sulfates.
 68153-35-5  Ethanaminium, 2-amino-N-(2-aminoethyl-N-   ................................    06/20/88    11/09/93
              (2-hydroxyethyl)-N-methyl-, N,N''-
              ditallow acyl derivatives, methyl
              sulfates (salts).
 68298-46-4  7-Amino-2,2-dimethyl-2,3-                  ................................    02/13/84    12/29/88
              dihydrobenzofuran--7-Benzofuranamine,2,3-
              dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-.
 68389-88-8  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), [alpha]-[2-      ................................    06/20/88    11/09/93
              [bis(2-aminoethyl)methylammonio]ethyl]-
              [omega]-hydroxy-, N,N''-dicoco acyl
              derivatives, methyl sulfates (salts).
 68389-89-9  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), [alpha]-[2-      ................................    06/20/88    11/09/93
              [bis(2-aminoethyl)methylammonio]ethyl]-
              [omega]-hydroxy-,N,N''-bis(hydrogenated
              tallow acyl) derivatives, methyl
              sulfates (salts).
 68410-69-5  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), alpha-[2-[bis(2- ................................     6/20/88    12/19/95
              aminoethyl) methylammonio]ethyl]-w-
              hydroxy,- N,N'-ditallow acyl
              derivatives, methyl sulfates (salts).
 68413-04-7  Poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)], [alpha]- ................................    06/20/88    11/09/93
              [2-[bis(2-aminoethyl)methylammonio]
              methylethyl]-[omega]-hydroxy-, N,N''-
              ditallow acyl derivatives, methyl
              sulfates (salts).
 68554-06-3  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), [alpha]-[3-      ................................    06/20/88    11/09/93
              [bis(2-aminoethyl)methylammonio]-2-
              hydroxy-propyl]-[omega]-hydroxy-, N-coco
              acyl derivatives, methyl sulfates
              (salts).
 68611-64-3  Urea, reaction products with formaldehyde  Sec. 716.20(b)(1) applies.....    06/03/85    11/09/93
 68928-76-7  Stannane, dimethylbis[(1-oxoneodecyl)oxy]- Sec. 716.21(a)(3).............      6/3/04      8/2/04
              .
 69009-90-1  Diisopropyl biphenyl--1,1'-Biphenyl,       ................................    06/28/84    12/29/88
              bis(1-methylethyl)-.
 70914-09-9  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), [alpha]-[2-      ................................    06/20/88    06/20/88
              [bis(2-aminoethyl)methylammonio]ethyl]-
              [omega]-hydroxy-, N,N''-di[C14	18 acyl]
              derivatives, methyl sulfates (salts).
 75790-84-0  Benzene, 2-isocyanato-4-[(4-isocyanato-    ................................    06/01/87    11/09/93
              phenyl)methyl]-1-methyl-.
 75790-87-3  Benzene, 1-isocyanato-2-[(4-isocyanato-    ................................    06/01/87    11/09/93
              phenyl)thio]-.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) [Reserved]
    (c) By category. The following categories are listed in alphabetical 
order. Chemical substances listed within a category are provided only as 
examples of the category. All chemical substances within a category are 
subject to all the provisions of part 716 for the time period from the 
effective date of the category until the sunset date. Manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of any chemical substance within a category 
are subject to the reporting requirements of subpart A for that 
category, except when the sunset date for the particular substance 
predates the sunset date for the category, or when the exemption of 
Sec. 716.20(b) of this part applies.

[[Page 101]]



----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              CAS No.
                        Category                           (examples for    Special     Effective    Sunset date
                                                             category)     exemptions      date
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alkyl epoxides--including all noncyclic aliphatic         ..............  ...........      10/4/82      12/29/88
 hydrocarbons with one or more epoxy functional groups..
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       <GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT>
                                                                                                    

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              CAS No.
                        Category                           (examples for    Special     Effective    Sunset date
                                                             category)     exemptions      date
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
R 1 = R2 = R3  = R4 = H or alkyl. Groups R1-R4 may
 contain one or more epoxide functions.
  Oxirane, decyl-.......................................       2855-19-8  ...........     10/04/82      12/29/88
  Oxirane, 2, 2 - dimethyl -............................        558-30-5  ...........     10/04/82      12/29/88
  Oxirane, 2, 3 - dimethyl -............................       3266-23-7  ...........     10/04/82      12/29/88
  Oxirane, dodecyl......................................       3234-28-4  ...........     10/04/82      12/29/88
  Oxirane, heptadecyl -.................................      67860-04-2  ...........     10/04/82      12/29/88
  Oxirane, octyl-.......................................       2404-44-6  ...........    10/04/82,
                                                                                          12/29/88
  Oxirane, pentadecyl -.................................      22092-38-2  ...........     10/04/82      12/29/88
Alkyl phthalates -- all alkyl esters of 1, 2-             ..............  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
 benzenedicarboxylic acid (ortho  -phthalic acid).......
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           <GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT>
                                                                                                    

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              CAS No.
                        Category                           (examples for    Special     Effective    Sunset date
                                                             category)     exemptions      date
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
R1 = R2 = alkyl.
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, bis(2-ethylhexyl) ester.        117-81-7  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, bis(1-methylheptyl)             131-15-7  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   ester................................................
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, bis(2-methylpropyl)              84-69-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   ester................................................

[[Page 102]]

 
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, 2-butoxy-2-oxyethyl              85-70-1  ...........     10/04/82      01/13/86
   butyl ester..........................................
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, butyl cyclohexyl ester..         84-64-0  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, butyl 2-ethylhexyl ester         85-69-8  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, butyl octyl ester.......         84-78-6  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, decyl hexyl ester.......      25724-58-7  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, decyl octyl ester.......        119-07-3  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, dibutyl ester...........         84-74-2  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, dicyclohexyl ester......         84-61-7  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, diethyl ester...........         84-66-2  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, dihexyl ester...........         84-75-3  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, diisodecyl ester........      26761-40-0  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, diisononyl ester........      28553-12-0  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, diisooctyl ester........      27554-26-3  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, demethyl ester..........        131-11-3  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, dinonyl ester...........         84-76-4  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, dioctyl ester...........        117-84-0  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, diundecyl ester.........        119-06-2  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, isodecyl tridecyl ester.       3648-20-2  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, 2-ethylhexyl-8-                  89-13-4  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   methylnonyl ester....................................
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, hexyl isodecyl ester....      61702-81-6  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, isodecyl tridecyl ester.      61886-60-0  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
Alkyltin compounds......................................  ..............  ...........     01/03/83      12/29/88
  Dibutyltin S,S'-bis(isooctyl mercaptoacetate)--Acetic       25168-24-5  ...........     01/03/83      12/29/88
   acid, 2,2'-[(dibutylstannylene)bis(thio)]bis-,
   diisooctyl ester.....................................
  Dibutyltin S,S'-bis(isooctyl mercaptoacetate)--Acetic       26636-01-1  ...........     01/03/83      12/29/88
   acid, 2,2'-[(dimethylstannylene)bis(thio)]bis-,
   diisooctyl ester.....................................
  Mono methyltin tris(isooctylmercaptoacetate) Acetic         54849-38-6  ...........     01/03/83      12/29/88
   acid, 2,2',2''-[(methylstannylidyne)tris(thio)]tris-
   triisoacetyl ester...................................
Aniline and chloro-, bromo-, and/or nitroanilines.......  ..............  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine...........................................         62-53-3  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 4-bromo-.................................        106-40-1  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 2-bromo-6-chloro-4-nitro-................         99-29-6  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 2-bromo-,4,6-dinitro-....................       1817-73-8  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 2-chloro-................................         95-51-2  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 3-chloro-................................        108-42-9  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 4-chloro-................................        106-47-8  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 2-chloro-4,6-dinitro-....................       3531-19-9  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 4-chloro-2,6-dinitro-....................       5388-62-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 3-chloro-, hydrochloride.................        141-85-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 2-chloro-4-nitro-........................        121-87-9  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 2-chloro-5-nitro-........................       6283-25-6  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 4-chloro-2-nitro-........................         89-63-4  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 4-chloro-3-nitro-........................        635-22-3  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 2,6-dibromo-4-nitro-.....................        827-94-1  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 2,3-dichloro-............................        608-27-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 2,4-dichloro-............................        554-00-7  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 2,5-dichloro-............................         95-82-9  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 3,4-dichloro-............................         95-76-1  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 3,5-dichloro-............................        626-43-7  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 2,6-dichloro-4-nitro-....................         99-30-9  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 2,4-dinitro-.............................         97-02-9  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 2-nitro-.................................         88-74-4  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 3-nitro-.................................         99-09-2  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 4-nitro-.................................        100-01-6  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 2,4,6-tribromo-..........................        147-82-0  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzenamine, 2,4,6-trichloro-.........................        634-93-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
Aryl phosphates--phosphate esters of phenol or of alkyl-  ..............  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
 substituted phenols. Triaryl and mixed alkyl and aryl
 esters are included but trialkyl esters are excluded...
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


[[Page 103]]

<GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT>


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              CAS No.
                        Category                           (examples for    Special     Effective    Sunset date
                                                             category)     exemptions      date
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
R1 = phenyl, either unsubstituted or substituted with
 one or more alkyl or aralkyl groups R2 = R3 alkyl; or
 phenyl, either unsubstituted or substituted with one or
 more alkyl or aralkyl groups
  Phenol, dimethyl-, phosphate (3:1)....................      25155-23-1  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Phenol, 4-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-, phosphate (3:1).......         78-33-1  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Phosphoric acid, dibutyl phenyl ester.................       2528-36-1  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Phosphoric acid, diisodecyl phenyl ester..............      51363-64-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Phosphoric acid, (1,1-dimethylethyl) phenyl diphenyl        56803-37-3  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   ester................................................
  Phosphoric acid, 2-ethylhexyl diphenyl ester..........       1241-94-7  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Phosphoric acid, isodecyl diphenyl ester..............      29761-21-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Phosphoric acid, (1-methylethyl)phenyl diphenyl ester.      28108-99-8  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Phosphoric acid, methylphenyl diphenyl ester..........      25444-49-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Phosphoric acid, (1-methyl-l-phenylethyl)phenyl             34364-42-6  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   diphenyl ester.......................................
  Phosphoric acid, triphenyl ester......................        115-86-6  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Phosphoric acid, tris(methylphenyl) ester.............       1330-78-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Phosphoric acid, tris(2-methylphenyl) ester...........         78-30-8  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Phosphoric acid, tris(3-methylphenyl) ester...........        563-04-2  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Phosphoric acid, tris(4-methylphenyl) ester...........         78-32-0  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
Asbestos--asbestiform varieties of chrysolite             ..............  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
 (serpentine); crocidolite (riebeckite); amosite
 (cummingtonite--grunerite); anthophyllite; tremolite;
 and actinolite.........................................
  Asbestos..............................................       1332-21-4  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Asbestiform minerals..................................      12001-29-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Asbestiform minerals..................................      17068-78-9  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Asbestiform minerals..................................      12172-73-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
Bisazobiphenyl dyes derived from benzidine and its        ..............  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
 congeners, ortho-toluidine (dimethylbenzidine) and
 dianisidine (dimethoxybenzidine).......................
  Benoic acid, 2-[[2-amino-6-[[4'-[(-carboxy-4-                6739-62-4  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   hydroxphenyl) azo[-3,3'-dimethoxy[1,1'-biphenyl]-4-
   yl]azo]-5-hydroxy-7-sulfo-1-naphthalenylazo]-5-nitro-
   , trisodium salt.....................................
  Benzoic acid, 5-[[4'-[2-amino-8-hydroxy-6-sulfo-1-           2429-84-7  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   naphthalenyl) azo] [1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl]-azo]-2-
   hydroxy-, disodium salt..............................
  Benzoic acid, 5-[[4'-[7-amino-1-hydroxy-3-sulfo-2-           2429-82-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   naphthalenyl)azo] [1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-2-hydroxy-
   , disodium salt......................................
  Benzoic acid, 5-[[4'-[(1-amino-4-sulfo-2-                    2429-79-0  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   naphthalenyl)azo] [1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-2-hydroxy-
   , disodium salt......................................
  Benzoic acid, 5-[[4'-[[2,6-diamino-3-[[8-hydroxy-3,6-        2429-81-4  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   disulfo-7-[(4-sulfo-1-naphthalenyl)azo]-2-
   naphthalenyl]azo]-5-methylphenyl]azo] [1,1'-biphenyl]-
   4-yl]azo]-2-hydroxy-, tetrasodium salt...............
  Benzoic acid, 5-[[4'-[(2,6-diamino-3-methyl-5-               6637-88-3  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   sulfophenyl)azo]-3,3'-dimethyl[1,1'-biphenyl]-4-
   yl]azo]-2-hydroxy-, disodium salt....................
  Benzoic acid, 5-[[4'-[[2,6-diamino-3-methyl-5-[(4-           2586-58-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   sulfophenyl)azo]phenyl]azo][1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-
   2-hydroxy-, disodium salt............................

[[Page 104]]

 
  Benzoic acid, 5-[[4'-[[2,6-diamino-3-methyl-5-[(4-           6360-54-9  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   sulfophenyl)azo]phenyl]azo]1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-2-
   hydroxy-3-methly-, disodium salt.....................
  Benzoic acid, 5-[[4'-[[2,4-dihydroxy-3-[(4-                  2893-80-3  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   sulfophenyl)azo]phenyl]azo] [1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-
   2-hydroxy-, disodium salt............................
  Benzoic acid, 3,3'-[(3,7-disulfo-1,5-naphthalene-            8014-91-3  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   diyl)bis[azo(6-hydroxy-3,1-phenylene)azo[6(or 7)-
   sulfo-4,1-naphthalenediyl]azo[1,1'-biphenyl]-4,4'-
   diylazo]]bis[6-hydroxy-, hexasodium salt.............
  [1,1'-Biphenyl]-4,1'-bis diazonium), 3,3'-dimethoxy-..      20282-70-6  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Butanamide, N,N'-(3,3'-dimethyl [1,1'-biphenyl]-4,4'-          91-96-3  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   diyl)bis[3-oxo-......................................
  C.I. Direct Blue 218..................................      10401-50-0  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Cuprate(2-), [5-[[4'-[[2,6-dihydroxy-3-[(2-hydroxy-5-       16071-86-6  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   sulfophenyl)azo]phenyl]azo][1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-
   2-hydroxybenzoato(4-)]-, disodium....................
  Cuprate(3-), [[mu]-[7-[[3,3'-dihydroxy-4'-[[1-hydroxy-       6656-03-7  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   6-(phenylamino)-3-sulfo-2-naphthalenyl]azo] [1,1'-
   biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-8-hydroxy-1,6-
   naphthalenedisulfonato(7-)]]di-, trisodium...........
  Cuprate(4-), [[mu]-[[6,6'-[3,3'-dihydroxy[1,1'-             16143-79-6  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   biphenyl]-4-4'-diyl)bis(azo)]bis[4-amino-5-hydroxy-
   1,3-naphthalendisulfonato]](8-)]]di-, tetrasodium....
  2-Naphthalenecarboxamide, N,N'-(3,3'-dimethoxy[1,1'-           91-92-9  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   biphenyl]-4,4'-diyl)bis[3-hydroxy-...................
  1,3-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-amino-5-hydroxy-6-         2586-57-4  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   [[4'-[(2hydroxy-1-naphthalenyl)azo]-3,3'-
   dimethoxy[1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-, disodium salt...
  1,3-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 6,6'-[(3,3'-                 2610-05-1  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   dimethoxy[1,1'-biphenyl]-4,4'diyl)bis(azo)]bis[4-
   amino-5-hydroxy-, tetrasodium salt...................
  1,3-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 8-[[4'-[(4-                 3530-19-6-  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   ethoxyphenyl)azo] [1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-7-hydroxy-
   , disodium salt......................................
  1,3-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 8-[[4'-[4-                   6358-29-8  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   ethoxyphenyl)azo]-3,3'-dimethyl] [1,1'-biphenyl]-4-
   yl]azo]-7-hydroxy-, disodium salt....................
  1,3-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 7-hydroxy-8-[[4'-[[4-        3567-65-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   [[(4-methylphenyl) sulfonyl]oxy]phenyl]-azo] [1,1'-
   biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-, disodium salt..................
  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 5-amino-3-[[4'-(7-           2429-73-4  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   amino-1-hydroxy-3-sulfo-2-naphthalenyl)-azo] [1,1'-
   biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-4-hydroxy-, trisodium salt.......
  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-amino-3-[[4'-[(2,4-        2429-83-6  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   diamino-5-methylphenyl)azo] [1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-
   5-hydroxy-6-(phenylazo)-, disodium salt..............
  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-amino-3-[[4'-[(2,4-        1937-37-7  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   diaminophenyl)azo] [1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl]azo] 5-
   hydroxy-6-(phenylazo)-, disodium salt................
  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-amino-5-hydroxy-           4335-09-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   6[[4'-[(4-hydroxyphenyl)azo] [1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl]-
   azo]-3-[(4-nitrophenyl)azo]-, disodium salt..........
  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-amino-5-hydroxy-3-         3626-28-6  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   [[4'-[(4-hydroxyphenyl)azo] [1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl]azo)-
   6-(phenylazo)-, disodium salt........................
  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 3,3'-[[1,1'-biphenyl]-       2602-46-2  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   4,4'-diylbis(azo)]bis[5-amino-4-hydroxy-, tetrasodium
   salt.................................................
  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 3,3'-[(3,3'-                 2429-74-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   dimethoxy[1,1'-biphenyl]-4,4'-diyl)bis(azo)]bis[5-
   amino-4-hydroxy-, tetrasodium salt...................
  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 3,3'-[(3,3'-dimethyl-          72-57-1  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   [1,1'-biphenyl]-4,4'-diyl)bis(azo)]bis[5-amino-4-
   hydroxy-, tetrasodium salt...........................
  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 3,3'-[(3,3'-dimethyl-        2150-54-1  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   [1,1'-biphenyl]-4,4'-diyl)bis(azo)]bis-[4,5-dihydroxy-
   , tetrasodium salt...................................
  1-Naphthalenesulfonic acid, 3-[[4'[(6-amino-1-hydroxy-       6449-35-0  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   3-sulfo-2-naphthalenyl)azo]-3,3'-dimethoxy[1,1'-
   biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-4-hydroxy-, disodium salt........
  1-Naphthalenesulfonic acid, 3,3'-[[1,1'-biphenyl]-4,4'-       573-58-0  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   diyl-4,4'-diyl)bis(azo)]bis[(4-amino-,disodium salt..

[[Page 105]]

 
  1-Naphthalenesulfonic acid, 3,3'-[3,3'-dimethoxy-[1,1'-      2429-71-2  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   biphenyl]-4,4'-diyl)bis(azo)]bis[4-hydroxy-, disodium
   salt.................................................
  1-Naphthalenesulfonic acid, 3,3'-[(3,3'dimethyl[1,1'-         992-59-6  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   biphenyl]-4,4'-diyl)bis(azo)]bis[4-amino-,disodium
   salt.................................................
Chlorinated benzenes, mono-, di-, tri-, tetra-, and       ..............  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
 penta-.................................................
  Benzene, chloro-......................................        108-90-7  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzene, 1,2-dichloro-................................         95-50-1  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzene, 1,3-dichloro-................................        541-73-1  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzene, 1,4-dichloro-................................        106-46-7  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzene, pentachloro-.................................        608-93-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzene, 1,2,3,4-tetrachloro-.........................        634-66-2  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzene, 1,2,3,5-tetrachloro-.........................        634-90-2  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzene, 1,2,4,5-tetrachloro-.........................         95-94-3  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzene, 1,2,3-trichloro-.............................         87-61-6  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzene, 1,2,4-trichloro-.............................        120-82-1  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Benzene, 1,3,5-trichloro-.............................        108-70-3  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
Chlorinated naphthalenes--chlorinated derivatives of      ..............  ...........     10/04/82      12/29/88
 naphthalene (empirical formula) C10HxCly where x = y =
 8......................................................
  Naphthalene, chloro-..................................      25586-43-0  ...........     10/04/82      12/29/88
  Naphthalene, chloro derivatives.......................      70776-03-3  ...........     10/04/82      12/29/88
  Naphthalene, 1-chloro-................................         90-13-1  ...........     10/04/82      12/29/88
  Naphthalene, heptachloro-.............................      32241-08-0  ...........     10/04/82      12/29/88
Chlorinated paraffins--chlorinated paraffin oils and      ..............  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
 chlorinated paraffin waxes, with chlorine content of 35
 percent through 70 percent by weight...................
  Alkanes, chloro-......................................      61788-76-9  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Alkanes, C6	18, chloro-...............................      68920-70-7  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Paraffin waxes and hydrocarbon waxes, chlorinated.....      63449-39-8  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
Ethyltoluenes--This category consists of ethyltoluene     ..............  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
 (mixed isomers) and the ortho (1,2-), meta (1,3-) and
 para (1,4-) isomers....................................
  Benzene, 1-ethyl-2-methyl-............................        611-14-3  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
Fluoroalkenes--This category is defined as fluroalkenes   ..............  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
 of the general formula: CnH2n-xFx where n equals 2 to 3
 and X equals 1 to 6....................................
  Ethene, tetrafluoro-..................................        116-14-3  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  Ethene, trifluoro-....................................        359-11-5  ...........     04/29/83      01/13/86
  1-Propene, 1,1,2,3,3,3-hexafluoro-....................        116-15-4  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
Glycidol (oxiranemethanol) and its derivatives..........  ..............  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                                                    <GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT>
                                                                                                    

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              CAS No.
                        Category                           (examples for    Special     Effective    Sunset date
                                                             category)     exemptions      date
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
R = H; alkyl, alkenyl or alkynyl; aryl; acyl. where R =
 alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl, or acyl; any
 substituents or functional groups may be present with
 the alkyl, etc., groups
  1,2-Cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, bis(oxiranylmethyl)        5493-45-8  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   ester................................................
  Disiloxane, 1,1,3,3-tetramethyl-1,3-bis[3-                    126-80-7  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   oxiranylmethoxy)propyl]-.............................

[[Page 106]]

 
  2,4-Imidazolidinedione, 5,5-dimethyl-3-[2-                  32568-89-1  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   (oxiranylmethoxy)propyl]-1-(oxiranylmethyl)-.........
  2,4-Imidazolidenedione, 3,3'-[2-(oxiranylmethoxy)-1,3-      38304-52-8  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   propanediyl]bis[5,5-dimethyl-1-(oxiranyl-methyl)-....
  Neodecanoic acid, oxiranylmethyl ester................      26761-45-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, 2,2'-[1,4-butanediylbis(oxymethylene)]bis....       2425-79-8  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, (butoxymethyl)-..............................       2426-08-6  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, 2,2'-[1,4-cyclohexanedilbis                        14228-73-0  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   (methyleneoxymethylene)]bis-.........................
  Oxirane, [(2,4-dibromophenoxy)methyl]-................      20217-01-0  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, [(1,2-dibromopropoxy)methyl]-................      35243-89-1  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, [(1,1-dimethylethoxy)methyl]-................       7665-72-7  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, [[4-(1,1-dimethylethyl)phenoxy]methyl]-......       3101-60-8  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, 2,2'-[(2,2-dimethyl-1,3-                           17557-23-2  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   propanediyl)bis(oxymethylene)]bis-...................
  Oxirane, [(dodecyloxy)methyl]-........................       2461-18-9  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, 2,2'-[1,2-ethanediylbis (oxymethylene)]bis-..       2224-15-9  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, 2,2',2'',2'''-[1,2-ethanediylidenetetrakis-         7328-97-4  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   (4,1-phenyleneoxymethylene)]tetrakis-................
  Oxirane, (ethoxymethyl)-..............................       4016-11-9  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, [[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]methyl]-.................       2461-15-6  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, [(hexadecyloxy)methyl]-......................      15965-99-8  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, 2,2',2''-[1,2,6-hexanetriyltris-                   68959-23-9  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   (oxymethylene)]tris-.................................
  Oxirane, (methoxymethyl)-.............................        930-37-0  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, 2,2'-[methylenebis(phenyleneoxymethylene)]bis-     39817-09-9  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   .....................................................
  Oxirane, 2,2'-[methylenebis(2,1-                            54208-63-8  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   phenyleneoxymethylene)]bis-..........................
  Oxirane, [(1-methylethoxy)methyl]-....................       4016-14-2  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, 2,2'-[(1-methylethylidene)bis[4,1-phenyl-          71033-08-4  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   eneoxy[1-(butoxymethyl)-2,1-
   ethanediyl]oxymethylene]]bis-........................
  Oxirane, 2,2'-[1-methylethylidene) bis(4,1-phenyl-           1675-54-3  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   eneoxymethylene)]bis-................................
  Oxirane, 2,2'-[(1-methylethylidene)bis(4,1-phenyl-          25085-99-8  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   eneoxymethylene)[bis-, homopolymer...................
  Oxirane, 2,2'-[(1-methylethylidene)bis[4,1-                 72319-24-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   phenyleneoxy-3,1-propanediyloxy-4,1-phenylene(1-
   methylethylidene)-4,1-phenyleneoxymethylene]]bis-....
  Oxirane, [(methylphenoxy)methyl]-.....................      26447-14-3  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, [(2-methylphenoxy)methyl]-...................       2210-79-9  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, [[4-(1-methyl-1-phenylethyl)phenoxy]-methyl]-      61578-04-9  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, mono[C6-C12-alkyloxy)methyl]derivatives......      68987-80-4  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, mono[(C8-C12-alkyloxy)methyl]derivatives.....      68609-96-1  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, mono[C10-C16-alkyloxy)methyl]derivatives.....      68081-84-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, mono[(C10-C14-alkyloxy)methyl]derivatives....      68609-97-2  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, [(4-nitrophenoxy)methyl]-....................       5255-75-4  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, [(4-nonylphenoxy)methyl]-....................       6178-32-1  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, [(9-octadecenyloxy)methyl]-, (Z)-............      60501-41-9  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, [(octadecyloxy)methyl]-......................      16245-97-9  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, 2,2'-(oxiranylmethoxy)-1,3-                        13561-08-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   phenylene]bis(methylene)]bis-........................
  Oxirane, 2,2'-[[[2-oxiranylmethyoxy)                        67786-03-2  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   phenyl]methylene]bis(4,1-phenyl-eneoxymethylene)]bis-
  Oxirane, 2,2'-[oxybis(methylene)]bis-.................       2238-07-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, (phenoxymethyl)-.............................        122-60-1  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, 2,2'-[1,3-phenylenebis (oxymethylene)]bis-...       2425-01-6  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, 2,2'-[1,4-phenylenebis (oxymethylene)]bis-...        101-90-6  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, 2,2',2\1/4\-[1,2,3-propanetriyl                    13236-02-7  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   tris(oxymethylene)]tris-.............................
  Oxirane, [(2-propenyloxy)methyl]-.....................        106-92-3  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxirane, 2,2',2\1/4\-[propylidynetris (4,1-                 68517-02-2  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   phenyleneoxymethylene)]tris-.........................
  Oxirane, [(tetradecyloxy)methyl]-.....................      38954-75-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Oxiranecarboxylic acid, 3-methyl-3-phenyl-, ethyl              77-83-8  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   ester................................................
  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl),-[alpha]-[4-                       69943-75-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   oxiranylmethyoxy)benzoyl]-[omega]-[[4-
   oxiranylmethoxy)benzoyl]oxy]-........................
  2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, oxiranylmethyl ester.....        106-91-2  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  2-Propenoic acid, oxiranylmethyl ester................        106-90-1  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Silane, [(3-chloropropyl)(dimethoxy)[3-                     71808-64-5  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   (oxiranylmethoxy)propyl]-............................
  Silane, diethoxymethyl[3-(oxiranyl-methoxy)propyl]-...       2897-60-1  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Silane, ethoxydimethyl[3-(oxiranyl-methoxy)propyl]-...      17963-04-1  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Silane, trimethyoxy[3-(oxiranyl-methoxy)propyl]-......       2530-83-8  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
  Tetrasiloxane, 1,1,1,3,5,7,7,7-octamethyl-3,5-bis[3-        69155-42-6  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   (oxiranylmethoxy)propyl]-............................

[[Page 107]]

 
  Trisiloxane, 1,1,1,3,5,5,5-heptamethyl-3-[3-(oxiranyl-       7422-52-8  ...........     10/04/82      10/04/92
   methoxy)propyl]-.....................................
Halogenated alkyl epoxides--halogenated noncyclic         ..............  ...........     10/04/82      12/29/88
 aliphatic hydrocarbons with one or more epoxy
 functional groups......................................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                                                    <GRAPHIC(S) NOT AVAILABLE IN TIFF FORMAT>
                                                                                                    

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              CAS No.
                        Category                           (examples for    Special     Effective    Sunset date
                                                             category)     exemptions      date
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
R1 = X or CnH2n = 1-yXy(y = 1 to 1n = 1)                  ..............  ...........  ...........  ............
R2 = H or X or CnH2n = 1-yXy(y = 0 to 2n = 1)             ..............  ...........  ...........  ............
R3 = H or X or CnH2n = 1-yXy(y = 0 to 2n = 1)             ..............  ...........  ...........  ............
R4 = H or X or CnH2n = 1-yXy(y = 0 to 2n = 1)             ..............  ...........  ...........  ............
X = halogen. Groups R1-R4 may contain one or more
 expoxide functions.
Lead and lead compounds.................................  ..............         Sec. February     April 28,
                                                                               716.21     28, 2008          2008
                                                                               (a)(8)
  Lead..................................................       7439-92-1         Sec. February     April 28,
                                                                               716.21     28, 2008          2008
                                                                               (a)(8)
  Acetic acid, lead (2 + ) salt.........................        301-04-2         Sec. February     April 28,
                                                                               716.21     28, 2008          2008
                                                                               (a)(8)
  Carbonic acid, lead (2 + ) salt (1:1).................        598-63-0         Sec. February     April 28,
                                                                               716.21     28, 2008          2008
                                                                               (a)(8)
  Lead chloride (PbCl 2 )...............................       7758-95-4         Sec. February     April 28,
                                                                           716.21 (a)     28, 2008          2008
                                                                                  (8)
  Chromic acid (H 2  Cr0 4 ), lead (2 + ) salt (1:1)....       7758-97-6         Sec. February     April 28,
                                                                               716.21     28, 2008          2008
                                                                               (a)(8)
  Lead oxide (PbO 2)....................................       1309-60-0         Sec. February     April 28,
                                                                               716.21     28, 2008          2008
                                                                               (a)(8)
  Oxirane, (2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-                        38565-52-5  ...........     10/04/82      12/29/88
   tridecafluoroheptyl)-................................
  Borate (1-), tetrafluoro-, lead (2 + ) (2:1)..........      13814-96-5         Sec. February     April 28,
                                                                               716.21     28, 2008          2008
                                                                               (a)(8)
  Phosphoric acid, lead (2 + ) salt (2:3)...............       7446-27-7         Sec. February     April 28,
                                                                               716.21     28, 2008          2008
                                                                               (a)(8)
  Silicic acid, lead salt, basic........................      53466-66-3         Sec. February     April 28,
                                                                               716.21     28, 2008          2008
                                                                               (a)(8)
  Octadecanoic acid, lead salt (1:?)....................       7428-48-0         Sec. February     April 28,
                                                                               716.21     28, 2008          2008
                                                                               (a)(8)
  Sulfuric acid, lead salt (1:?), basic.................      63653-42-9         Sec. February     April 28,
                                                                               716.21     28, 2008          2008
                                                                               (a)(8)
  Oxirane, (bromomethyl)-...............................      3132-463-7  ...........     10/04/82      12/29/88
  Oxirane, (2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-                        38565-52-5  ...........     10/04/82      12/29/88
   tridecafluoroheptyl)-................................
  Lead sulfide (PbS)....................................      1314-8 7-0         Sec. February     April 28,
                                                                               716.21     28, 2008          2008
                                                                               (a)(8)

[[Page 108]]

 
  Phenylenediamines (Benzenediamines). This category is   ..............  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
   defined as all nitrogen unsubstituted
   phenylenediamines and their salts with zero to two
   substitutents on the ring selected from the same of
   different members of the group of halo, nitro,
   hydroxy, hydroxy-lower alkoxy, lower-alkyl, and lower
   alkoxy. For this purpose, the term ``lower'' is
   defined as a group containing between one and four
   carbons..............................................
  1,2-Benzenediamine....................................         95-54-5  ...........      4/29/83       4/29/93
  1,3-Benzenediamine....................................        108-45-2  ...........      4/29/83       4/29/93
  1,2 - Benzenediamine, 4-butyl-........................       3663-23-8  ...........      4/29/83      12/29/88
  1,2 - Benzenediamine, 4-butyl-........................         95-83-0  ...........      4/29/83       4/29/83
  1,3-Benzenediamine, 4-chloro-.........................       5131-60-2  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  1,4-Benzenediamine, 2-chloro-, dihydrochloride........        615-46-3  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
  1,2-Benzenediamine, 5-chloro-3-nitro-.................      42389-30-0  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
  1,2-Benzenediamine, 4-chloro-, sulfate (1:1)..........      68459-98-3  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
  1,3-Benzenediamine, 4-chloro-, sulfate (1:1)..........      68239-80-5  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
  1,4-Benzenediamine, 2-chloro-, sulfate................       6219-71-2  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
  1,4-Benzenediamine, 2,5-dichloro-.....................      20103-09-7  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
  1,2-Benzenediamine, dihydrochloride...................        615-28-1  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  1,3-Benzenediamine, dihydrochloride...................        541-69-5  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  1,4-Benzenediamine, dihydrochloride...................        624-18-0  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  1,4-Benzenediamine, ethanedioate (1:1)................      62654-17-5  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  1,2-Benzenediamine, 4-ethoxy-.........................       1197-37-1  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
  1,3-Benzenediamine, 4-ethoxy-dihydrochloride..........      67801-06-3  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
  1,3-Benzenediamine, 4-ethoxy-, sulfate (1:1)..........      68015-98-5  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
  1,3-Benzenediamine, ar-ethyl-ar-methyl-...............      68966-84-7  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
  1,4-Benzenediamine, 2-methoxy.........................       5307-02-8  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  1,2-Benzenediamine, 4-methoxy-, dihydrochloride.......        614-94-8  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
  1,3-Benzenediamine, 4-methoxy-, sulfate...............       6219-67-6  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
  1,3-Benzenediamine, 4-methoxy-, sulfate (1:1).........      39156-41-7  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  Benzenediamine, ar-methyl-............................      25376-45-8  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  1,2-Benzenediamine, 3-methyl-.........................       2687-25-4  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  1,2-Benzenediamine, 4-methyl-.........................        496-72-0  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  1,3-Benzenediamine, 2-methyl-.........................        823-40-5  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  1,3-Benzenediamine, 4-methyl-.........................         95-80-7  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  1,3-Benzenediamine, 5-methyl-.........................        108-71-4  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  1,4-Benzenediamine, 2-methyl-.........................         95-70-5  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  1,4-Benzenediamine, 2-methyl-, dihydrochloride-.......        615-45-2  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  1,4-Benzenediamine, 2-methyl-, sulfate................       6369-59-1  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  1,4-Benzenediamine, 2-methyl-, sulfate (1:1)..........        615-50-9  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  1,2-Benzenediamine, 4-nitro-..........................         99-56-9  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  1,3-Benzenediamine, 4-nitro-,.........................       5131-58-8  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
  1,3-Benzenediamine, 5-nitro-,.........................       5042-55-7  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
  1,4-Benzenediamine, 2-nitro-,.........................       5307-14-2  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  1,2-Benzenediamine, 4-nitro-, dihydrochloride.........       6219-77-8  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
  1,4-Benzenediamine, 2-nitro-, dihydrochloride.........      18266-52-9  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
  1,2-Benzenediamine, 4-nitro-, sulfate (1:1)...........      68239-82-7  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
  1,4-Benzenediamine, 2-nitro-, sulfate (1:1)...........      68239-83-8  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
  1,3-Benzenediamine, sulfate (1:1).....................        541-70-8  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  1,4-Benzenediamine, sulfate (1:1).....................      16245-77-5  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  Ethanol, 2-(2,4-diaminophenoxy)-, dihydrochloride.....      66422-95-5  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
  Phenol, 2,4-diamino-, dihydrochloride.................        137-09-7  ...........     04/29/83      04/29/93
  Phenol, 2,4-diamino-6-methyl-.........................      15872-73-8  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
  Phenol, 2,4-diamino-6-methyl-, hydrochloride..........      65879-44-9  ...........     04/29/83      12/29/88
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (d) Listed members of categories. The following categories are 
listed in alphabetical order with the chemical substances identified in 
each category also listed alphabetically. Only those chemical substances 
specifically listed within a category are subject to all provisions of 
part 716 for the time period from the effective date of the rule until 
the sunset date.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
            Category                    CAS No.       Special Exemptions    Effective Date        Sunset Date
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aldehydes:......................
  Acetaldehyde..................  75-07-0...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Acetaldehyde, chloro-.........  107-20-0..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Acetaldehyde, (1,3-dihydro-     84-83-3...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   1,3,3-trimethyl-2H-indol-2-
   ylidene).

[[Page 109]]

 
  Acetaldehyde, trichloro-......  75-87-6...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Benzaldehyde..................  100-52-7..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Benzaldehyde, 3-bromo-........  3132-99-8.........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Benzaldehyde, 4-butyl-........  1200-14-2.........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Benzaldehyde, 2-chloro-.......  89-98-5...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Benzaldehyde, 4-chloro-.......  104-88-1..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Benzaldehyde, 4-(diethylamino)- 120-21-8..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   .
  Benzaldehyde, 4-(diethylamino)- 17754-90-4........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   2-hydroxy-.
  Benzaldehyde, 2,4-dihydroxy-..  95-01-2...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Benzaldehyde, 2,5-dimethoxy-..  93-02-7...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Benzaldehyde, 3,4-dimethoxy-..  120-14-9..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Benzaldehyde, (dimethylamino)-  28602-27-9........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Benzaldehyde, 4-                100-10-7..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   (dimethylamino)-.
  Benzaldehyde, 4-ethoxy-.......  10031-82-0........  ..................  l9/30/91..........  12/19/95
  Benzaldehyde, 3-ethoxy-4-       121-32-4..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   hydroxy-.
  Benzaldehyde, 2-hydroxy-......  90-02-8...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Benzaldehyde, 4-hydroxy-......  123-08-0..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Benzaldehyde, 4-hydroxy-3-      121-33-5..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   methoxy-.
  Benzaldehyde, 2-hydroxy-5-      97-51-8...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   nitro-.
  Benzaldehyde, 2-methoxy-......  135-02-4..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Benzaldehyde, 4-methoxy-......  123-11-5..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Benzaldehyde, methyl-.........  1334-78-7.........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Benzaldehyde, 4-methyl-.......  104-87-0..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Benzaldehyde, 2-nitro-........  552-89-6..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Benzaldehyde, 3-phenoxy-......  39515-51-0........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Benzaldehyde, 4-                455-19-6..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   (trifluoromethyl)-.
  Benzeneacetaldehyde...........  122-78-1..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Benzeneacetaldehyde, alpha-     93-53-8...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   methyl-.
  Benzeneacetaldehyde, 4-methyl-  104-09-6..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Benzenepropanal, 4-(1,1-        80-54-6...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   dimethylethyl)-.[alpha].-
   methyl-.
  Benzenepropanal, .[alpha].-     103-95-7..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   methyl-4-(1-methylethyl)-.
  1,3-Benzodioxole-5-             120-57-0..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   carboxaldehyde.
  1,3-Benzodioxole-5-             5780-07-4.........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   carboxaldehyde, 7-methoxy-.
  Butanal, 3-methyl-............  590-86-3..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  3-Cyclohexene-1-carboxaldehyde  100-50-5..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  3-Cyclohexene-1-                27939-60-2........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   carboxaldehyde, dimethyl-.
  3-Cyclohexene-1-                31906-04-4........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   carboxaldehyde, 4-(4-hydroxy-
   4-methylpentyl)-.
  3-Cyclohexene-1-                52475-86-2........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   carboxaldehyde, 1-methyl-4-(4-
   methyl-3-pentenyl)-.
  3-Cyclohexene-1-                66327-54-6........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   carboxaldehyde, 1-methyl-4-(4-
   methylpentyl)-.
  3-Cyclohexene-1-                37677-14-8........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   carboxaldehyde, 4-(4-methyl-3-
   pentenyl)-.
  3-Cyclohexene-1-                1423-46-7.........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   carboxaldehyde, 2,4,6-
   trimethyl-.
  3-Cyclopentene-1-acetaldehyde,  4501-58-0.........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   2,2,3-trimethyl-.
  Decanal.......................  112-31-2..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  4a(4H)-                         126-15-8..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   Dibenzofurancarboxaldehyde,
   1,5a,6,9,9a,9b-hexahydro-.
  Dodecanal.....................  112-54-9..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Ethanedial....................  107-22-2..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Heptanal......................  111-71-7..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Heptanal, 2-(phenylmethylene)-  122-40-7..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  5-Heptenal, 2,6-dimethyl-.....  106-72-9..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Hexanal, 2-ethyl-.............  123-05-7..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Hexanal, 3,5,5-trimethyl-.....  5435-64-3.........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  2-Hexenal.....................  505-57-7..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Hexenal, 2-ethyl-.............  26266-68-2........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
Indium Compounds:
 Acetic acid, indium(3 + ) salt.  25114-58-3........  Sec. 6/3/04              8/2/04
                                                       716.21(a)(6)
 Indium.........................  7440-74-6.........  Sec. 6/3/04              8/2/04
                                                       716.21(a)(6)
 Indium chloride (InCl3)........  10025-82-8........  Sec. 6/3/04              8/2/04
                                                       716.21(a)(6)
 Indium hydroxide (In(OH)3).....  20661-21-6........  Sec. 6/3/04              8/2/04
                                                       716.21(a)(6)
 Indium oxide (In2O3)...........  1312-43-2.........  Sec. 6/3/04              8/2/04
                                                       716.21(a)(6)
 Indium phosphide (InP).........  22398-80-7........  Sec. 6/3/04              8/2/04
                                                       716.21(a)(6)
 Indium tin oxide...............  50926-11-9........  Sec. 6/3/04              8/2/04
                                                       716.21(a)(6)
 Sulfamic acid, indium(3 + )      66027-93-8........  Sec. 6/3/04              8/2/04
 salt.                                                 716.21(a)(6)

[[Page 110]]

 
 Sulfuric acid, indium(3 + )      13464-82-9........  Sec. 6/3/04              8/2/04
 salt (3:2).                                           716.21(a)(6)
  1-Naphthalene carboxaldehyde..  66-77-3...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Nonanal.......................  124-19-6..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  2,6-Octadienal, 3,7-dimethyl-,  141-27-5..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   (E).
  2,6-Octadienal, 3,7-dimethyl-,  106-26-3..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   (Z).
  Octanal.......................  124-13-0..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Octanal, 3,7-dimethyl-........  5988-91-0.........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Octanal, 7-hydroxy-3,7-         107-75-5..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   dimethyl-.
  Octanal, 7-methoxy-3,7-         3613-30-7.........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   dimethyl-.
  Octanal, 2-(phenylmethylene)-.  101-86-0..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  6-Octenal, 3,7-dimethyl-......  106-23-0..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  6-Octenal, 3,7-dimethyl-, (S)-  5949-05-3.........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Pentanal......................  110-62-3..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Pentanedial...................  111-30-8..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  1-Piperidinecarboxaldehyde....  2591-86-8.........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Propanal......................  123-38-6..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Propanal, 3-hydroxy-2,2-        597-31-9..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   dimethyl-.
  2-Propenal, 2-methyl-.........  78-85-3...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Propanal, 3-(methylthio)-.....  3268-49-3.........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  2-Propenal....................  107-02-8..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  2-Propenal, 3- 4-(1,1-          13586-68-0........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   dimethylethyl)phenyl -2-
   methyl-.
  2-Propenal, 3-(2-               1504-74-1.........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   methoxyphenyl)-.
  2-Propenal, 2-methyl-.........  78-85-3...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  2-Propenal, 2-methyl-3-phenyl-  101-39-3..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  2-Propenal, 3-phenyl-.........  104-55-2..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  2-Propenal, 3-phenyl-,          1331-92-6.........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   monopentyl deriv..
  2-Pyridinecarboxaldehyde......  1121-60-4.........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  2-Thiophene carboxaldehyde....  98-03-3...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Undecanal.....................  112-44-7..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Undecanal, 2-methyl-..........  110-41-8..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  9-Undecenal...................  143-14-6..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  10-Undecenal..................  112-45-8..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
Alkyl-, Chloro-, and
 Hydroxymethyl Diaryl Ethers:.
  Benzene, 1-(bromomethyl)-3-     51632-16-7........  ..................  04/12/93..........  06/30/98
   phenoxy-.
  Benzenemethanol, 3-phenoxy-,..  13826-35-2........  ..................  04/12/93..........  06/30/98
  Benzenemethanol, 3-phenoxy-,    50789-44-1........  ..................  4/12/93...........  12/19/95
   acetate.
  Benzene, 1-methyl-3-phenoxy-..  3586-14-9.........  ..................  04/12/93..........  06/30/98
  Benzene, 1,1'-oxybis[dodecyl-.  69834-19-1........  ..................  4/12/93...........  12/19/95
  Benzene, 1,1,'-oxybis[methyl-.  28299-41-4........  ..................  04/12/93..........  06/30/98
  Benzene, 1,1'-oxybis[(1,1,3,3-  61702-88-3........  ..................  4/12/93...........  12/19/95
   tetramethylbutyl)-.
  Benzoic acid, 3-[2-chloro-4-    63734-62-3........  ..................  04/12/93..........  06/30/98
   (trifluoromethyl)phenoxy]-,.
  Benzoic acid, 3-[2-chloro-4-    72242-48-3........  ..................  04/12/93..........  06/30/98
   (trifluoromethyl)phenoxy],
   potassium salt.
  1,1'-Biphenyl, phenoxy-.......  28984-89-6........  ..................  04/12/93..........  06/30/98
  2-Chloro-1-(3-methylphenoxy)-4- 42874-96-4........  ..................  04/12/93..........  06/30/98
   (trifluoromethyl)benzene.
  1,4-Diphenoxybenzene..........  3061-36-7.........  ..................  4/12/93...........  12/19/95
  Phenol, 3-[2-chloro-4-          50594-77-9........  ..................  04/12/93..........  06/30/98
   (trifluoromethyl)phenoxy]-,
   acetate.
Alkyl Phosphates:...............
  Ethanol, 2-butoxy-, phosphate   78-51-3...........  ..................  10/29/90..........  12/19/95
   (3:1).
  Ethanol, 2-(2-butoxyethoxy)-,   7332-46-9.........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   phosphate (3:1).
  Phosphoric acid, bis(2-         298-07-7..........  ..................  10/29/90..........  12/19/95
   ethylhexyl) ester.
  Phosphoric acid, dibutyl ester  107-66-4..........  ..................  10/29/90..........  06/30/98
  Phosphoric acid, didodecyl      7057-92-3.........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   ester.
  Phosphoric acid, diisooctyl     27215-10-7........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   ester.
  Phosphoric acid, dodecyl ester  12751-23-4........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
  Phosphoric acid, 2-ethylhexyl   12645-31-7........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   ester.
  Phosphoric acid, monobutyl      1623-15-0.........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   ester.
  Phosphoric acid, mono(2-        1070-03-7.........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   ethylhexyl)ester.
  Phosphoric acid, monohexyl      3900-04-7.........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   ester.
  Phosphoric acid, monomethyl     812-00-0..........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   ester.
  Phosphoric acid, mono(1-        1623-24-1.........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   methylethyl)ester.
  Phosphoric acid, monooctyl      3991-73-9.........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   ester.
  Phosphoric acid, monooctadecyl  2958-09-0.........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   ester.

[[Page 111]]

 
  Phosphoric acid, triethyl       78-40-0...........  ..................  10/29/90..........  12/19/95
   ester.
  Phosphoric acid, tris(2-        78-42-2...........  ..................  10/29/90..........  12/19/95
   ethylhexyl) ester.
  Phosphoric acid, tris(2-        126-71-6..........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   methylpropyl) ester.
  Phosphorodichloridic acid,      1498-51-7.........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   ethyl ester.
Alkylphenols and Alkylphenol
 Ethoxyates:.
  tert-Butylphenol (mixed         27178-34-3........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
   isomers).                                           716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  2-Butylphenol.................  3180-09-4.........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  2-tert-Butylphenol............  88-18-6...........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  4-n-Butylphenol...............  1638-22-8.........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  4-sec-Butylphenol.............  99-71-8...........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  4-tert-Butylphenol............  98-54-4...........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  Decaethylene glycol 4-          2315-66-4.........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
   isoctylphenyl ether.                                716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  4-Dodecylphenol...............  104-43-8..........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  Dodecylphenol (mixed isomers).  1331-57-3.........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  Dedecylphenol (mixed isomers).  27193-86-8........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  Hexaethylene glycol 4-          2497-58-7.........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
   isoctylphenyl ether.                                716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  Isobutylphenol (mixed isomers)  31195-95-6........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  Isononylphenol (mixed isomers)  11066-49-2........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  4-(1-Methylbutyl)phenol.......  94-06-4...........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  (1-Methylheptyl)phenol (mixed   27985-70-2........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
   isomers).                                           716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  4-(1-Methyloctyl)phenol.......  17404-66-9........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  Nonylphenol (mixed isomers)...  1300-16-9.........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
                                  25154-52-3........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  4-Nonylphenol.................  104-40-5..........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  Branched 4-nonylphenol (mixed   84852-15-3........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
   isomers).                                           716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  2-Octylphenol.................  949-13-3..........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  4-Octylphenol.................  1806-26-4.........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  4-Pentylphenol................  14938-35-3........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  4-tert-Pentylphenol...........  80-46-6...........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  Polyethylene glycol             9036-19-5.........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
   mono(octyl)phenyl ether.                            716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  Polyethylene glycol 4-(tert-    9002-93-1.........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
   octyl)phenyl ether.                                 716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl),       68987-90-6........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
   [alpha]-(octylphenyl)-[omega]-                      716.20(b)(4)
   hydroxy-, branched.                                 applies.
  2-(1,1,3,3-                     3884-95-5.........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
   Tetramethylbutyl)phenol.                            716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  (1,1,3,3-                       1322-69-6.........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
   Tetramethylbutyl)phenol                             716.20(b)(4)
   (mixed isomers).                                    applies.
                                  27193-28-8........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
                                  29932-96-5........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
                                  30105-54-5........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
                                  62744-41-6........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
  4-(2,2,3,3-                     54932-78-4........  Sec. 3/29/96...........  6/30/98
   Tetramethylbutyl)phenol.                            716.20(b)(4)
                                                       applies.
Brominated flame retardants:....
  Alkanes, C10-18, bromochloro-.  68955-41-9........  ..................  10/29/90..........  12/19/95
  Benzamide, 3,5-dibromo-N-(4-    87-10-5...........  ..................  10/29/90..........  12/19/95
   bromophenyl)-2-hydroxy-.
  Benzene, ethenyl-,              88497-56-7........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   homopolymer, brominated.
  Benzene, 1,1'-(1-               25327-89-3........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   methylethylidene)bis (3,5-
   dibromo-4-(2-propenyloxy)-.
  Benzene, pentabromomethyl-....  87-83-2...........  ..................  10/29/90..........  12/19/95
  Cyclohexane, 1,2,3,4,5-         87-84-3...........  ..................  10/29/90..........  12/19/95
   pentabromo-6-chloro-.
  Cyclohexane,                    30554-72-4........  ..................  10/29/90..........  12/19/95
   tetrabromodichloro-.
  Cyclohexane, tribromotrichloro- 30554-73-5........  ..................  10/29/90..........  12/19/95
   .
  Ethanol, 2,2'-((1-              4162-45-2.........  ..................  10/29/90..........  12/19/95
   methylethylidene)bis ((2,6-
   dibromo-4,1-phenylene)oxy))
   bis-.
  Ethene, bromo-................  593-60-2..........  ..................  10/29/90..........  06/30/98
  Phenol, 2,4-dibromo-..........  615-58-7..........  ..................  10/29/90..........  12/19/95
  Phenol, 2,4(or 2,6)-dibromo-    69882-11-7........  ..................  10/29/90..........  12/19/95
   ,homopolymer.
  1-Propanol, 2,3-dibromo-......  96-13-9...........  ..................  10/29/90..........  12/19/95
  1-Propanol, 2,2-dimethyl-       36483-57-5........  ..................  10/29/90..........  12/19/95
   ,tribromo deriv.
  2-Propenoic acid,(1-            55205-38-4........  ..................  10/29/90..........  12/19/95
   methylethylidene)bis (2,6-
   dibromo-4,1-phenylene) ester.
Chloroalkyl phosphates:.........

[[Page 112]]

 
  2,2-Bis(chloromethyl)-1,3-      38051-10-4........  ..................  6/14/93...........  12/19/95
   propanediyltetrakis(2-
   chloroethyl) phosphate.
  2-Chloro-1-methylethylbis(2-    76649-15-5........  ..................  6/14/93...........  12/19/95
   chloropropyl) phosphate-.
  1,2-Ethanediyl tetrakis(2-      34621-99-3........  ..................  6/14/93...........  12/19/95
   chloro-1-methylethylene)
   phosphate.
  Oxydi-2,1-ethanediyltetrakis(2- 53461-82-8........  ..................  6/14/93...........  12/19/95
   choloroethyl) phosphate.
Cyanoacrylates:.................
  2-Propenoic acid, 2-cyano-,     137-05-3..........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
   methyl ester.
  2-Propenoic acid, 2-cyano-,     1069-55-2.........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
   isobutyl ester.
  2-Propenoic acid, 2-cyano-3,3-  6197-30-4.........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
   diphenyl-, 2-ethylhexyl ester.
  2-Propenoic acid, 2-cyano-,     6606-65-1.........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
   butyl ester.
  2-Propenoic acid, 2-cyano-,     7085-85-0.........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
   ethyl ester.
  2-Propenoic acid, 2-cyano-, 2-  7324-02-9.........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
   propenyl ester.
  2-Propenoic acid, 2-cyano-, 1-  10586-17-1........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
   methylethyl ester.
  2-Propenoic acid, 2-cyano-,     21982-43-4........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
   ethoxy ethyl ester.
  2-Propenoic acid, 2-cyano-,     23023-91-8........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
   2,2,2-trifluoromethyl ester.
  2-Propenoic acid, 2-cyano-, 2-  27816-23-5........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
   methoxyethyl ester.
  Ethanaminium, 2-[[2-cyano-3-[4- 64992-16-1........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
   (diethylamino)phenyl]-1-oxo-2-
   propenyl]oxy]-N,N,N-trimethyl-
   , chloride.
Indium Compounds:...............  ..................  ..................  ..................  ..................
  Acetic acid, indium(3 + ) salt  25114-58-3........  Sec. 6/3/04............  8/2/04
                                                       716.21(a)(6).
  Indium........................  7440-74-6.........  Sec. 6/3/04............  8/2/04
                                                       716.21(a)(6).
  Indium chloride (InCl3).......  10025-82-8........  Sec. 6/3/04............  8/2/04
                                                       716.21(a)(6).
  Indium hydroxide (In(OH)3)....  20661-21-6........  Sec. 6/3/04............  8/2/04
                                                       716.21(a)(6).
  Indium oxide (In2O3)..........  1312-43-2.........  Sec. 6/3/04............  8/2/04
                                                       716.21(a)(6).
  Indium phosphide (InP)........  22398-80-7........  Sec. 6/3/04............  8/2/04
                                                       716.21(a)(6).
  Indium tin oxide..............  50926-11-9........  Sec. 6/3/04............  8/2/04
                                                       716.21(a)(6).
  Sulfamic acid, indium(3 + )     66027-93-8........  Sec. 6/3/04............  8/2/04
   salt.                                               716.21(a)(6).
  Sulfuric acid, indium(3 + )     13464-82-9........  Sec. 6/3/04............  8/2/04
   salt (3:2).                                         716.21(a)(6).
IRIS Chemicals:.................
  3,4-Dimethylphenol............  95-65-8...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  2,4-Dinitrophenol.............  51-28-5...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
Isocyanates:....................
  Acetic acid, isocyanato-,       2949-22-6.........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   ethyl ester.
  Benzene, bis(isocyanatomethyl)- 25854-16-4........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   .
  Benzene, 1-bromo-4-isocyanato-  2493-02-9.........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
  Benzene, 1-chloro-3-isocyanato- 2909-38-8.........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   .
  Benzene, 1-chloro-4-isocyanato- 104-12-1..........  ..................  10/29/90..........  06/30/98
   .
  Benzene, 1,2-dichloro-4-        102-36-3..........  ..................  10/29/90..........  06/30/98
   isocyanato-.
  Benzene, 1,3-dichloro-5-        34893-92-0........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   isocyanato-.
  Benzene, 1,1'-                  10031-75-1........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   (diisocyanatomethylene)bis-.
  Benzene, isocyanato-..........  103-71-9..........  ..................  10/29/90..........  06/30/98
  Benzene, 2-isocyanato-1,3-      28178-42-9........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   bis(1-methylethyl)-.
  Benzene, 2-isocyanato-1,3-      28556-81-2........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   dimethyl-, ester.
  Benzene, 1-isocyanato-2-methyl- 614-68-6..........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   .
  Benzene, 1-isocyanato-4-methyl- 622-58-2..........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   .
  Benzene, 1-isocyanato-4-nitro-  100-28-7..........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
  Benzene, 1-isocyanato-3-        329-01-1..........  ..................  10/29/90..........  06/30/98
   (trifluoromethyl)-.
  Benzene, 1,1',1''-              2422-91-5.........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   methylidynetris(4-isocyanato-.
  Butane, 1-isocyanato-.........  111-36-4..........  ..................  10/29/90..........  06/30/98
  Cyclohexane, 2-heptyl-3,4-bis   68239-06-5........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   (9-isocyanatononyl)-1-pentyl-.
  Cyclohexane, isocyanato-......  3173-53-3.........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
  1,3-Diazetidine-2,4-dione, 1,3- 26747-90-0........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   bis(3-isocyanato
   methylphenyl)-.
  Ethane, isocyanato-...........  109-90-0..........  ..................  10/29/90..........  12/19/95
  Imidodicarbonic diamide, N,N'-  4035-89-6.........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   2-tris(6-isocyanatohexyl)-.

[[Page 113]]

 
  Methane, isocyanato-..........  624-83-9..........  ..................  10/29/90..........  12/19/95
  Octadecane, 1-isocyanato-.....  112-96-9..........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
  Phenol, 4-isocyanato-,          4151-51-3.........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   phosphorothioate (3:1)
   (ester).
  Propane, 1-isocyanato-........  110-78-1..........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
  1-Propene, 3-isocyanato-......  1476-23-9.........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
  2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2- 30674-80-7........  ..................  10/29/90..........  12/19/95
    isocyanatoethyl ester.
  2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-2-   73597-26-9........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   (((((5-isocyanato-1,3,3-
   trimethylcyclohexyl)methyl)am
   ino) carbonyl)oxy)ethyl ester.
  1,3,5,-Triazine-2,4,6(1H.3H.5H- 26603-40-7........  ..................  10/29/90..........  11/09/93
   trione, 1,3,5-tris(3-
   isocyanatomethylphenyl)-.
Methyl ethylene glycol ethers
 and esters:.
  Ethylene glycol monomethy       3121-61-7.........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
   ether acrylate.
  Tetraethylene glycol            23783-42-8........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
   monomethyl ether.
OSHA Chemicals in Need of Dermal
 Absorption Testing:.
  Amitrole......................  61-82-5...........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  n-Amyl acetate................  628-63-7..........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  o-Anisidine...................  90-04-0...........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Benzyl chloride...............  100-44-7..........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  sec-Butyl acetate.............  105-46-4..........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  tert-Butyl acetate............  540-88-5..........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  sec-Butyl alcohol.............  78-92-2...........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  tert-Butyl alcohol............  75-65-0...........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  t-Butylcatechol...............  98-29-3...........  Sec. 8/4/95............  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3) and
                                                       (b)(4) apply.
  o-sec-butylphenol.............  89-72-5...........  ..................  3/11/94...........  6/30/98
  Camphor.......................  76-22-2...........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Carbon disulfide..............  75-15-0...........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Catechol......................  120-80-9..........  Sec. 8/4/95............  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3) and
                                                       (b)(4) apply.
  a-Chloroacetophenone..........  532-27-4..........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Chlorobenzene.................  108-90-7..........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  o-Chlorotoluene...............  95-49-8...........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Cyclohexene...................  110-83-8..........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Cyclohexanol..................  108-93-0..........  Sec. 8/4/95............  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3) and
                                                       (b)(4) apply.
  Cyclopentadiene...............  542-92-7..........  Sec. 8/4/95............  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3) and
                                                       (b)(4) apply.
  Cyclopentane..................  287-92-3..........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Diacetone alcohol.............  123-42-2..........  Sec. 8/4/95............  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3) and
                                                       (b)(4) apply.
  Dibutyl phosphate.............  107-66-4..........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  1,2-Dichloroethylene..........  540-59-0..........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Dicylcopentadiene.............  77-73-6...........  Sec. 8/4/95............  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3) and
                                                       (b)(4) apply.
  Dimethyl acetamide............  127-19-5..........  Sec. 8/4/95............  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3) and
                                                       (b)(4) apply.
  Dimethylaniline...............  121-69-7..........  Sec. 8/4/95............  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3) and
                                                       (b)(4) apply.
  Dimethyl sulfate..............  77-78-1...........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  m-Dinitrobenzene..............  99-65-0...........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  o-Dinitrobenzene..............  528-29-0..........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  p-Dinitrobenzene..............  100-25-4..........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  2,4-Dinitrotoluene............  121-14-2..........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Diphenylamine.................  122-39-4..........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Disulfiram....................  97-77-8...........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  1/26/94
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Ethyl bromide.................  74-96-4...........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Ethyl ether...................  60-29-7...........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Heptane (n-Heptane)...........  142-82-5..........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Indene........................  95-13-6...........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Isoamyl acetate...............  123-92-2..........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  N-Isopropylaniline............  768-52-5..........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  p-Methoxyphenol...............  150-76-5..........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Methyl acetate................  79-20-9...........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Methylcyclohexane.............  108-87-2..........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Methyl formate................  107-31-3..........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Methyl isoamyl ketone.........  110-12-3..........  Sec. 8/4/95............  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3) and
                                                       (b)(4) apply.
  p-Nitroaniline................  100-01-6..........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.

[[Page 114]]

 
  p-Nitrochlorobenzene..........  100-00-5..........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  1-Nitropropane................  108-03-2..........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  2-Nitropropane................  79-46-9...........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  m-Nitrotoluene................  99-08-1...........  Sec. 8/4/95............  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3) and
                                                       (b)(4) apply.
  o-Nitrotoluene................  88-72-2...........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  p-Nitrotoluene................  99-99-0...........  Sec. 8/4/95............  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3) and
                                                       (b)(4) apply.
  Nonane........................  111-84-2..........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Pentane.......................  109-66-0..........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Phenylhydrazine...............  100-63-0..........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Propylene glycol dinitrate....  6423-43-4.........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Sodium bisulfite..............  7631-90-5.........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Sodium metabisulfite..........  7681-57-4.........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Tetrahydrofuran...............  109-99-9..........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  m-Toluidine...................  108-44-1..........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Vinylidene chloride...........  75-35-4...........  Sec. 8/4/95............  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3) and
                                                       (b)(4) apply.
  Vinyl toluene.................  25013-15-4........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  p-Xylene......................  106-42-3..........  Sec. 1/26/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
  Xylidine......................  1300-73-8.........  Sec. 3/11/94...........  6/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(3)
                                                       applies.
Propylene glycol ethers and
 esters:.
  Dipropylene glycol............  110-96-5..........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
  Dipropylene glycol butyl ether  29911-28-2........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
  Dipropylene glycol monomethyl   88917-22-0........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
   ether acetate.
  1-(2-Methoxy-1-methylethoxy)-2- 20324-32-7........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
   propanol.
  Methoxy-1-propanol............  28677-93-2........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
  1-Phenoxy-2-propanol..........  770-35-4..........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
  Propylene glycol monobutyl      29387-86-8........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
   ether.
  Propylene glycol monomethyl     108-65-6..........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
   ether acetate.
  Propylene glycol mono-tert-     57018-52-7........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
   butyl ether.
  Tripropylene glycol diacrylate  42978-66-5........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
  Tripropylene glycol methyl      20324-33-8........  ..................  1/26/94...........  12/19/95
   ether.
Siloxanes:......................
  Cyclopolydimethylsiloxane.....  69430-24-6........  ..................  10/12/93..........  06/30/98
  Decamethylcyclopentasiloxane..  541-02-6..........  ..................  10/12/93..........  06/30/98
  Decamethyltetrasiloxane.......  141-62-8..........  ..................  10/12/93..........  06/30/98
  Dimethyldiphenylsiloxane......  68083-14-7........  ..................  10/12/93..........  06/30/98
  Dimethylhydropolylsiloxane....  68037-59-2........  ..................  10/12/93..........  06/30/98
  Dimethylmethyl 3,3,3-           115361-68-7.......  ..................  10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   trifluoropropyl siloxane.
  Dimethylmethylvinylsiloxane...  67762-94-1........  ..................  10/12/93..........  06/30/98
  Dimethylpolysiloxanes.........  68037-74-1........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Dimethyl silicones and          63148-62-9........  ..................  10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   siloxanes.
  Dimethyl silicones and          67762-90-7........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   siloxane, reaction products                         716.20(b)(2)
   with silica.                                        applies.
  Docosamethylcycloundecasiloxan  18766-38-6........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   e.                                                  716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Docosamethyldecasiloxane......  556-70-7..........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Dodecamethylcyclohexasiloxane.  540-97-6..........  ..................  10/12/93..........  06/30/98
  Dodecamethylpentasiloxane.....  141-63-9..........  ..................  10/12/93..........  06/30/98
  Dotetracontamethyleicosasiloxa  150027-00-2.......  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   ne.                                                 716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Dotriacontamethylcyclohexadeca  150026-95-2.......  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   siloxane.                                           716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Dotriacontamethylpentadecasilo  2471-11-6.........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   xane.                                               716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Eicosamethylcyclodecasiloxane.  18772-36-6........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Eicosamethylnonasiloxane......  2652-13-3.........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Hexacosamethylcyclotridecasilo  23732-94-7........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   xane.                                               716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Hexacosamethyldodecasiloxane..  2471-08-1.........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Hexadecamethylcyclooctasiloxan  556-68-3..........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   e.                                                  716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Hexadecamethylheptasiloxane...  541-01-5..........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Hexamethylcyclotrisiloxane....  541-05-9..........  ..................  10/12/93..........  06/30/98
  Hexamethyldisilazane..........  999-97-3..........  ..................  10/12/93..........  06/30/98
  Hexamethyldisiloxane..........  107-46-0..........  ..................  10/12/93..........  06/30/98
  Hexatriacontamethylcyclooctade  23523-12-8........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   casiloxane.                                         716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Hexatriacontamethylheptadecasi  18844-04-7........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   loxane.                                             716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Methylpolysiloxane............  9004-73-3.........  ..................  10/12/93..........  06/30/98
  Methylvinylcyclosiloxane......  2554-06-5.........  ..................  10/12/93..........  06/30/98
  Siloxanes and silicones, di-    70131-67-8........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   Me, hydroxy-terminated.                             716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Octacosamethylcyclotetradecasi  149050-40-8.......  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   loxane.                                             716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.

[[Page 115]]

 
  Octacosamethyltridecasiloxane.  2471-09-2.........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Octadecamethylcyclononasiloxan  556-71-8..........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   e.                                                  716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Octadecamethyloctasiloxane....  556-69-4..........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Octamethyltrisiloxane.........  107-51-7..........  ..................  10/12/93..........  06/30/98
  Octaphenylcyclotetrasiloxane..  546-56-5..........  ..................  10/12/93..........  06/30/98
  Octatriacontamethylcyclononade  150026-97-4.......  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   casiloxane.                                         716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Octatriacontamethyloctadecasil  36938-52-0........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   oxane.                                              716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Polymethyloctadecylsiloxane...  not available.....  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Tetracontamethylcycloeicosasil  150026-98-5.......  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   oxane.                                              716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Tetracontamethylnonadecasiloxa  150026-99-6.......  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   ne.                                                 716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Tetracosamethylcyclododecasilo  18919-94-3........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   xane.                                               716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Tetracosamethylundecasiloxane.  107-53-9..........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Tetradecamethylcycloheptasilox  107-50-6..........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   ane.                                                716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Tetradecamethylhexasiloxane...  107-52-8..........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
                                                       716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Tetramethylcyclotetrasiloxane.  2370-88-9.........  ..................  10/12/93..........  06/30/98
  Tetramethyldivinyldisiloxane..  2627-95-4.........  ..................  10/12/93..........  06/30/98
  Tetratriacontamethylcyclohepta  150026-96-3.......  ..................  10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   decasiloxane.
  Tetratriacontamethylhexadecasi  36938-50-8........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   loxane.                                             716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Triacontamethylcyclopentadecas  23523-14-0........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   iloxane.                                            716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Triacontamethyltetradecasiloxa  2471-10-5.........  Sec. 10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   ne.                                                 716.20(b)(2)
                                                       applies.
  Trifluoropropylmethylcyclotris  2374-14-3.........  ..................  10/12/93..........  06/30/98
   iloxane.
 
Substantially produced chemicals
 in need of subchronic tests:.
  Acetoacetanilide..............  102-01-2..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  4-(Acetylamino)benzenesulfonyl  121-60-8..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   chloride.
  2-(2-Aminoethoxy)-ethanol.....  929-06-6..........  ..................  6/30/92...........  6/30/98
  7-Amino-4-hydroxy-2-            87-02-5...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   naphthalenesulfonic acid.
  Ammonium carbamate............  1111-78-0.........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  1,3-Benzenedisulfonic acid....  98-48-6...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Bis(2-ethylhexyl)-2-            142-16-5..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   butenedioate.
  Bromamine acid................  116-81-4..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Butyric anhydride.............  106-31-0..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Ethanol, 2-(2-ethoxyethoxy)-,   112-15-2..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   acetate.
  1,2-Dichlorobutane............  616-21-7..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  3,4-Dichlorobutene............  760-23-6..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  3,4-Dichloronitrobenzene......  99-54-7...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  1,3-Dicyanobenzene............  626-17-5..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  Diethylene glycol dimethyl      111-96-6..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   ether.
  4-Ethoxynitrobenzene..........  100-29-8..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  2-Ethylanthraquinone..........  84-51-5...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Hexa(methoxymethyl) melamine..  3089-11-0.........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  3-Hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid....  92-70-6...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Isobutyl acrylate.............  106-63-8..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Isophthaloyl chloride.........  9-63-8............  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  4-Methyl-2-nitro-phenol.......  119-33-5..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
  2-(4-Morpholinyldithio)-        95-32-9...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   benzothiazole.
  Naphthalenedicarboxylic         81-84-5...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   anhydride.
  1-Naphthol....................  90-15-3...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  p,p'-                           80-51-3...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   Oxybis(benzenesulfonylhydrazi
   de).
  2,4-Pentanedione..............  123-54-6..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Perfluoro-N-hexane............  355-42-0..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Perfluorotributylamine........  311-89-7..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Propanoic anhydride...........  123-62-6..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Quinacridone..................  1047-16-1.........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Terephthaloyl chloride........  100-20-9..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  ..................
  Trichloromethanesulfenyl        594-42-3..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  6/30/98
   chloride.
  Triethylene glycol bis(2-       94-28-0...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   ethylhexanoate).
Sulphones:......................
  2-Amino-4-[(2-hydroxyethyl)     17601-96-6........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   sulfonyl]phenol.
  2-Amino-4-                      98-30-6...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   (methylsulfonyl)phenol.
  2-[(6-Amino-2-naphthalenyl)     52218-35-6........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   sulfonyl]ethanol.
  2-[(3-                          5246-57-1.........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   Aminophenyl)sulfonyl]ethanol.
  Bisphenol S...................  80-09-1...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  3-                              18760-44-6........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   (Decyloxy)tetrahydrothiophene
   1,1-dioxide.
  4,4'-Diaminodiphenyl sulfone..  80-08-0...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95

[[Page 116]]

 
  4-[4-[(2,6-Dichloro-4-          17741-62-7........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   nitrophenyl)azo]phenyl]
   thiomorpholine, 11,1-dioxide.
  1-(Diiodomethyl)sulfonyl-4-     20018-09-1........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   methyl benzene.
  Dimethylsulfone...............  67-71-0...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Diphenylsulfone...............  127-63-9..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  3-[N-Ethyl-4-[[6-               16588-67-3........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   (methylsulfonyl)-2-
   benzothiazolyl]azo]-m-
   toluidino]propionitrile.
  1,1'-                           41123-59-5........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   [Methylenebis(sulfonyl)]bis-2-
   chloroethane.
  2,2'-                           41123-69-7........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   [Methylenebis(sulfonyl)]biset
   hanol.
  1,1'-                           3278-22-6.........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   [Methylenebis(sulfonyl)]biset
   hene.
  6-Methylsulfonyl)-2-            17557-67-4........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   benzothiazolamine.
  2-[(3-                          41687-30-3........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   Nitrophenyl)sulfonyl]ethanol.
  1,1'-                           53061-10-2........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   [Oxybis(methylenesulfonyl)]bi
   s-2-chloroethane.
  2,2'-                           36724-43-3........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   [Oxybis(methylenesulfonyl)]
   bisethanol.
  1,1'-                           26750-50-5........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   [Oxybis(methylenesulfonyl)]
   bisethene.
  4-[[4-                          63134-33-8........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   (Phenylmethoxy)phenyl]sulfony
   l] phenol.
  4-Phenylthiomorpholine, 1,1-    17688-68-5........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
   dioxide.
  Sulfolane.....................  126-33-0..........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  3-Sulfolene...................  77-79-2...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  Sulfonyl bis(4-chlorobenzene).  80-07-9...........  ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
  2,2'-Sulfonyl bisethanol......  2580-77-0           ..................  9/30/91...........  12/19/95
Voluntary HPV Challenge Program                                                               ..................
 orphan (unsponsored) chemicals:
  Acetaldehyde, reaction          68442-60-4........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   products with formaldehyde,                         716.21(a)(7)
   by-products from.
  Acetamide, 2,2-dichloro-N,N-di- 37764-25-3........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   2-propenyl-.                                        716.21(a)(7)
  Acid chlorides, tallow,         68955-37-3........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   hydrogenated.                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Alkanes, chloro...............  61788-76-9........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Alkenes, C<ls-thn-eq>10         64743-02-8........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   .alpha.-.                                           716.21(a)(7)
  Amides, coco, N-[3-             70851-08-0........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   (dimethylamino)propyl],                             716.21(a)(7)
   alkylation products with
   sodium 3-chloro-2-
   hydroxypropanesulfonate.
  Amides, tall-oil fatty, N,N-di- 68308-74-7........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   Me.                                                 716.21(a)(7)
  Anthracene oil................  90640-80-5........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Aromatic hydrocarbons, C8, o-   68650-36-2........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   xylene-lean.                                        716.21(a)(7)
  Aromatic hydrocarbons, C9-16,   68955-76-0........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   biphenyl deriv.-rich.                               716.21(a)(7)
  Barium, carbonate nonylphenol   68515-89-9........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   complexes.                                          716.21(a)(7)
  Benzaldehyde, 3-bromo-........  3132-99-8.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Benzaldehyde, 3-phenoxy-......  39515-51-0........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Benzaldehyde, 4-(1,1-           939-97-9..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   dimethylethyl)-.                                    716.21(a)(7)
  Benzenamine, 2,6-diethyl-N-     35203-08-8........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   methylene-.                                         716.21(a)(7)
  Benzenamine, 2-ethyl-6-methyl-  35203-06-6........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   N-methylene-.                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Benzenamine, 3-                 98-16-8...........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   (trifluoromethyl)-.                                 716.21(a)(7)
  Benzenamine, N,N-dimethyl-....  121-69-7..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Benzenamine, N-phenyl-4-[[4-    2152-64-9.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   (phenylamino)phenyl][4-                             716.21(a)(7)
   (phenylimino)-2,5-
   cyclohexadien-1-
   ylidene]methyl]-,
   monohydrochloride.

[[Page 117]]

 
  Benzene, (2-chloro-1,1-         515-40-2..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   dimethylethyl)-.                                    716.21(a)(7)
  Benzene, 1-(bromomethyl)-3-     51632-16-7........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   phenoxy-.                                           716.21(a)(7)
  Benzene, 1,1'-[1,2-             104-66-5..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   ethanediylbis(oxy)]bis-.                            716.21(a)(7)
  Benzene, 1,1'-oxybis-,          119345-02-7.......  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   tetrapropylene derivs..                             716.21(a)(7)
  Benzene, 1,2-dimethyl-3-nitro-  83-41-0...........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Benzene, 1-bromo-4-fluoro-....  460-00-4..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Benzene, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitro-  97-00-7...........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Benzene, 1-chloro-4-            5216-25-1.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   (trichloromethyl)-.                                 716.21(a)(7)
  Benzene, 1-chloro-4-            98-56-6...........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   (trifluoromethyl)-.                                 716.21(a)(7)
  Benzene, 1-methoxy-4-methyl-..  104-93-8..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Benzene, chloromethyl-........  25168-05-2........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Benzene, ethenylethyl-........  28106-30-1........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Benzene, ethylenated..........  68987-41-7........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Benzene, mixed with toluene,    68953-80-0........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   dealkylation product.                               716.21(a)(7)
  1,3-Benzenedicarboxylic acid,   138-25-0..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   5-sulfo-, 1,3-dimethyl ester.                       716.21(a)(7)
  1,3-Benzenedicarboxylic acid,   3965-55-7.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   5-sulfo-, 1,3-dimethyl ester,                       716.21(a)(7)
   sodium salt.
  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid,   84-69-5...........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   bis(2-methylpropyl) ester.                          716.21(a)(7)
  1,4-Benzenedicarboxylic acid,   68988-22-7........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   dimethyl ester, manuf. of, by-                      716.21(a)(7)
   products from.
  Benzenemethanol,                617-94-7..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   .alpha.,.alpha.-dimethyl-.                          716.21(a)(7)
  Benzenemethanol, 3-phenoxy-...  13826-35-2........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Benzenesulfonic acid, 3-nitro-  127-68-4..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   , sodium salt.                                      716.21(a)(7)
  Benzenesulfonic acid, 4-chloro- 38185-06-7........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   3,5-dinitro-, potassium salt.                       716.21(a)(7)
  Benzenesulfonic acid, C10-16-   68584-25-8........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   alkyl derivs., compds. with                         716.21(a)(7)
   triethanolamine.
  Benzenesulfonic acid, dimethyl- 25321-41-9........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   .                                                   716.21(a)(7)
  Benzenesulfonyl chloride......  98-09-9...........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  1,2-Benzisothiazol-3(2H)-one,   81-07-2...........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   1,1-dioxide.                                        716.21(a)(7)
  Benzoic acid, 2-methyl-.......  118-90-1..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  2,4,6,8,3,5,7-                  17976-43-1........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   Benzotetraoxatriplumbacycloun                       716.21(a)(7)
   decin-3,5,7-triylidene, 1,9-
   dihydro-1,9-dioxo-.
  Benzothiazole, 2-               28908-00-1........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   [(chloromethyl)thio]-.                              716.21(a)(7)
  Benzoyl chloride, 3,5-dichloro- 2905-62-6.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   .                                                   716.21(a)(7)
  1,2-Butadiene.................  590-19-2..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Butanedioic acid, oxo-,         40876-98-0........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   diethyl ester, ion(1-),                             716.21(a)(7)
   sodium.
  1-Butanol, sodium salt........  2372-45-4.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  2-Butenal.....................  4170-30-3.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  2-Butenediamide, (2E)-, N,N'-   68442-77-3........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   bis[2-(4,5-dihydro-2-nortall-                       716.21(a)(7)
   oil alkyl-1H-imidazol-1-
   yl)ethyl] derivs..

[[Page 118]]

 
  2-Butenedioic acid (2E)-, di-   68610-90-2........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   C8-18-alkyl esters.                                 716.21(a)(7)
  2-Butenedioic acid (2Z)-,       2915-53-9.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   dioctyl ester.                                      716.21(a)(7)
  2-Butenenitrile, 2-methyl-,     30574-97-1........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   (2E)-.                                              716.21(a)(7)
  2-Butenenitrile, 2-methyl-,     20068-02-4........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   (2Z)-.                                              716.21(a)(7)
  Carbamic acid, monoammonium     1111-78-0.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   salt.                                               716.21(a)(7)
  Carbamodithioic acid,           513-74-6..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   monoammonium salt.                                  716.21(a)(7)
  Carbonochloridothioic acid, S-  37734-45-5........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   (phenylmethyl) ester.                               716.21(a)(7)
  Carbonodithioic acid, O-(1-     140-93-2..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   methylethyl) ester, sodium                          716.21(a)(7)
   salt.
  Carboxylic acids, di-, C4-11..  68937-72-4........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Chromate(3-), bis[3-(hydroxy-   57693-14-8........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   .kappa.O)-4-[[2-(hydroxy-                           716.21(a)(7)
   .kappa.O)-1-naphthalenyl]azo-
   .kappa.N1]-7-nitro-1-
   naphthalenesulfonato(3-)]-,
   trisodium.
  Coal, anthracite, calcined....  68187-59-7........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Creosote......................  8001-58-9.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Cyclohexane, oxidized, aq.      68915-39-9........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   ext., sodium salt.                                  716.21(a)(7)
  Cyclohexane, oxidized, non-     68609-05-2........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   acidic by-products, distn.                          716.21(a)(7)
   lights.
  1,3-Cyclopentadiene...........  542-92-7..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Decane, 1-chloro-.............  1002-69-3.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Decanoic acid, mixed esters     68441-66-7........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   with dipentaerythritol,                             716.21(a)(7)
   octanoic acid and valeric
   acid.
  1-Decene, sulfurized..........  72162-15-3........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Distillates (coal tar)........  65996-92-1........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Distillates (coal tar), heavy   90640-86-1........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   oils.                                               716.21(a)(7)
  Distillates (coal tar), upper.  65996-91-0........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Distillates (petroleum),        68782-97-8........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   hydrofined lubricating-oil.                         716.21(a)(7)
  Distillates, hydrocarbon resin  68602-81-3........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   prodn. higher boiling.                              716.21(a)(7)
  Disulfides, alkylaryl dialkyl   68334-01-0........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   diaryl, petroleum refinery                          716.21(a)(7)
   spent caustic oxidn. products.
  Disulfides, C5-12-alkyl.......  68513-62-2........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Ethane, 1,1,1-trimethoxy-.....  1445-45-0.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Ethane, 1,1'-                   111-91-1..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   [methylenebis(oxy)]bis[2-                           716.21(a)(7)
   chloro-.
  Ethane, 1,1'-oxybis[2-chloro-.  111-44-4..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Ethane, 1,2-dichloro-, manuf.   68608-59-3........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   of, by-products from, distn.                        716.21(a)(7)
   lights.
  1,2-Ethanediamine, N,N,N',N'-   110-18-9..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   tetramethyl-.                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Ethanedioic acid, calcium salt  563-72-4..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   (1:1).                                              716.21(a)(7)
  1,2-Ethanediol, dinitrate.....  628-96-6..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Ethanesulfonic acid, 2-         137-20-2..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   [methyl[(9Z)-1-oxo-9-                               716.21(a)(7)
   octadecenyl]amino]-, sodium
   salt.
  Ethanimidothioic acid, N-       13749-94-5........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   hydroxy-, methyl ester.                             716.21(a)(7)

[[Page 119]]

 
  Ethanol, 2-(2-butoxyethoxy)-,   38321-18-5........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   sodium salt.                                        716.21(a)(7)
  Ethanol, 2,2'-oxybis-,          68909-77-3........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   reaction products with                              716.21(a)(7)
   ammonia, morpholine derivs.
   residues.
  Ethanol, 2,2'-oxybis-,          71077-05-9........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   reaction products with                              716.21(a)(7)
   ammonia, morpholine product
   tower residues.
  Ethanol, 2-[(4-                 2494-89-5.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   aminophenyl)sulfonyl]-,                             716.21(a)(7)
   hydrogen sulfate (ester).
  Ethanol, 2-butoxy-, sodium      52663-57-7........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   salt.                                               716.21(a)(7)
  Ethene, hydrated, by-products   68987-66-6........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   from.                                               716.21(a)(7)
  Ethenesulfonic acid, sodium     3039-83-6.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   salt.                                               716.21(a)(7)
  Extract oils (coal), tar base.  65996-86-3........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Extract residues (coal), tar    65996-87-4........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   oil alk..                                           716.21(a)(7)
  Extract residues (coal), tar    73665-18-6........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   oil alk., naphthalene distn.                        716.21(a)(7)
   residues.
  Extracts, coal tar oil alk....  65996-83-0........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Fats and Glyceridic oils,       68990-65-8........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   vegetable, reclaimed.                               716.21(a)(7)
  Fatty acids, tall-oil, 2-(2-    68309-16-0........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   hydroxyethoxy)ethyl esters.                         716.21(a)(7)
  Fatty acids, tall-oil, low-     68915-05-9........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   boiling, reaction products                          716.21(a)(7)
   with ammonia-ethanolamine
   reaction by-products.
  Fatty acids, tall-oil,          68153-60-6........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   reaction products with                              716.21(a)(7)
   diethylenetriamine, acetates.
  Fatty acids, tall-oil,          68309-27-3........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   sulfonated, sodium salts.                           716.21(a)(7)
  Formic acid, compd. with        24794-58-9........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   2,2',2[ethanol] (1:1).                              716.21(a)(7)
  2,5-Furandione, dihydro-3-      26680-54-6........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   (octenyl)-.                                         716.21(a)(7)
  Glycine, N-(carboxymethyl)-...  142-73-4..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Glycine, N-(carboxymethyl)-,    928-72-3..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   disodium salt.                                      716.21(a)(7)
  Glycine, N-methyl-, monosodium  4316-73-8.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   salt.                                               716.21(a)(7)
  Glycine, N-phenyl-,             19525-59-8........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   monopotassium salt.                                 716.21(a)(7)
  Glycine, N-phenyl-, monosodium  10265-69-7........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   salt.                                               716.21(a)(7)
  1-Hexacosanol.................  506-52-5..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Hexadecane, 1-chloro-.........  4860-03-1.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  1,4-Hexadiene.................  592-45-0..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Hexanedioic acid, dihexyl       110-33-8..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   ester.                                              716.21(a)(7)
  Hexanedioic acid, esters with   84501-86-0........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   high-boiling C6-10-alkene                           716.21(a)(7)
   hydroformylation products.
  1,3-Hexanediol, 2-ethyl-......  94-96-2...........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  1,6-Hexanediol, distn.          68937-29-1........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   residues.                                           716.21(a)(7)
  2-Hexenal, 2-ethyl-...........  645-62-5..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  1H-Isoindole-1,3(2H)-dione,     85-40-5...........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   3a,4,7,7a-tetrahydro-.                              716.21(a)(7)
  Hydrocarbons, C12-20,           68919-17-5........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   catalytic alkylation by-                            716.21(a)(7)
   products.
  Imidodicarbonic diamide,        4035-89-6.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   N,N',2-tris(6-                                      716.21(a)(7)
   isocyanatohexyl)-.
  1,3-Isobenzofurandione, 5-      19438-61-0........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   methyl-.                                            716.21(a)(7)

[[Page 120]]

 
  Lard, oil, Me esters..........  68082-78-0........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Methanesulfonamide, N-[2-[(4-   25646-71-3........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   amino-3-                                            716.21(a)(7)
   methylphenyl)ethylamino]ethyl
   ]-, sulfate (2:3).
  Methanesulfonic acid, hydroxy-  870-72-4..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   , monosodium salt.                                  716.21(a)(7)
  Methanesulfonyl chloride......  124-63-0..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Methanone, (2-hydroxy-4-        131-57-7..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   methoxyphenyl)phenyl-.                              716.21(a)(7)
  Naphtha (petroleum), clay-      68527-22-0........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   treated light straight-run.                         716.21(a)(7)
  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic       5460-09-3.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   acid, 4-amino-5-hydroxy-,                           716.21(a)(7)
   monosodium salt.
  1-Naphthalenesulfonic acid, 2-  81-16-3...........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   amino-.                                             716.21(a)(7)
  2-Naphthalenesulfonic acid, 6-  6473-13-8.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   [(2,4-diaminophenyl)azo]-3-                         716.21(a)(7)
   [[4-[[4-[[7-[(2,4-
   diaminophenyl)azo]-1-hydroxy-
   3-sulfo-2-
   naphthalenyl]azo]phenyl]amino
   ]-3-sulfophenyl]azo]-4-
   hydroxy-, trisodium salt.
  1-Naphthalenol, 1,2,3,4-        529-33-9..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   tetrahydro-.                                        716.21(a)(7)
  1(2H)-Naphthalenone, 3,4-       529-34-0..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   dihydro-.                                           716.21(a)(7)
  1H,3H-Naphtho[1,8-cd]pyran-1,3- 81-84-5...........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   dione.                                              716.21(a)(7)
  Nickel, bis[(cyano-             83864-02-2........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   C)triphenylborato(1-)-                              716.21(a)(7)
   N]bis(hexanedinitrile-N,N')-.
  1-Octacosanol.................  557-61-9..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Octadecane, 1-chloro-.........  3386-33-2.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Octadecanoic acid, 2-(1-        25383-99-7........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   carboxyethoxy)-1-methyl-2-                          716.21(a)(7)
   oxoethyl ester, sodium salt.
  Octadecanoic acid, 2-           28188-24-1........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   (hydroxymethyl)-2-[[(1-                             716.21(a)(7)
   oxooctadecyl)oxy]methyl]-1,3-
   propanediyl ester.
  Octadecanoic acid, reaction     68815-50-9........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   products with 2-[(2-                                716.21(a)(7)
   aminoethyl)amino]ethanol.
  9-Octadecenoic acid, 12-        101-34-8..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   (acetyloxy)-, 1,2,3-                                716.21(a)(7)
   propanetriyl ester,
   (9Z,9'Z,9'',12R,12'R,12'')-.
  Octane, 1-chloro-.............  111-85-3..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  1-Octanesulfonyl chloride.....  7795-95-1.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  1-Octanesulfonyl fluoride.....  40630-63-5........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Oxirane, [(2-                   2210-79-9.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   methylphenoxy)methyl]-.                             716.21(a)(7)
  Oxiranemethanamine, N-[4-       5026-74-4.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   (oxiranylmethoxy)phenyl]-N-                         716.21(a)(7)
   (oxiranylmethyl)-.
  Paraffin oils,                  68188-18-1........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   chlorosulfonated, saponified.                       716.21(a)(7)
  3-Pentanone...................  96-22-0...........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  1-Pentene, 2,4,4-trimethyl-...  107-39-1..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  2-Pentene, 2,4,4-trimethyl-...  107-40-4..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Phenol, (1,1,3,3-               27193-28-8........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   tetramethylbutyl)-.                                 716.21(a)(7)
  Phenol, (1-methylethyl)-......  25168-06-3........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Phenol, 2-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-  2409-55-4.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   4-methyl-.                                          716.21(a)(7)
  Phenol, 2,4-bis(1,1-            52184-19-7........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   dimethylpropyl)-6-[(2-                              716.21(a)(7)
   nitrophenyl)azo]-.

[[Page 121]]

 
  Phenol, 2,4-bis(1-methyl-1-     70693-50-4........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   phenylethyl)-6-[(2-                                 716.21(a)(7)
   nitrophenyl)azo]-.
  Phenol, 3-(diethylamino)-.....  91-68-9...........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Phenol, 4-methyl-2-nitro-.....  119-33-5..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Phenol, isobutylenated          68457-74-9........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   methylstyrenated.                                   716.21(a)(7)
  Phenol, methyl-, sodium salt..  34689-46-8........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Phenol, nonyl derivs..........  68081-86-7........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Phenol, styrenated............  61788-44-1........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Phenols (petroleum)...........  64743-03-9........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Phosphoramidothioic acid, O,O-  17321-47-0........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   dimethyl ester.                                     716.21(a)(7)
  Phosphoric acid, (1,1-          56803-37-3........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   dimethylethyl)phenyl diphenyl                       716.21(a)(7)
   ester.
  Phosphoric acid, mixed 3-bromo- 125997-20-8.......  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   2,2-dimethylpropyl and 2-                           716.21(a)(7)
   bromoethyl and 2-chloroethyl
   esters.
  Phosphorochloridothioic acid,   2524-03-0.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   O,O-dimethyl ester.                                 716.21(a)(7)
  Phosphorochloridous acid,       63302-49-8........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   bis(4-nonylphenyl) ester.                           716.21(a)(7)
  Phosphorodichloridic acid,      1498-51-7.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   ethyl ester.                                        716.21(a)(7)
  Phosphorodithioic acid, O,O-di- 68187-41-7........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   C1-14-alkyl esters.                                 716.21(a)(7)
  Phosphorodithioic acid, O,O-di- 68649-42-3........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   C1-14-alkyl esters, zinc                            716.21(a)(7)
   salts.
  Phosphorodithioic acid, O,O-    756-80-9..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   dimethyl ester.                                     716.21(a)(7)
  Phosphorodithioic acid, O,O-    26377-29-7........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   dimethyl ester, sodium salt.                        716.21(a)(7)
  Phosphorous acid, 2-(1,1-       20227-53-6........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   dimethylethyl)-4-[1-[3-(1,1-                        716.21(a)(7)
   dimethylethyl)-4-
   hydroxyphenyl]-1-
   methylethyl]phenyl bis(4-
   nonylphenyl) ester.
  Phosphorous acid, isooctyl      26401-27-4........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   diphenyl ester.                                     716.21(a)(7)
  Piperazineethanol.............  25154-38-5........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Pitch, coal tar-petroleum.....  68187-57-5........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Propane, 2,2-dimethoxy-.......  77-76-9...........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Propanenitrile, 3-              1738-25-6.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   (dimethylamino)-.                                   716.21(a)(7)
  1-Propanesulfonic acid, 2-      52556-42-0........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   hydroxy-3-(2-propenyloxy)-,                         716.21(a)(7)
   monosodium salt.
  Propanoic acid, 2-bromo-......  598-72-1..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, 3-   22527-63-5........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   (benzoyloxy)-2,2,4-                                 716.21(a)(7)
   trimethylpentyl ester.
  2-Propenoic acid, 2-            24615-84-7........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   carboxyethyl ester.                                 716.21(a)(7)
  Pyridine, hydrochloride.......  628-13-7..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  4(1H)-Pyrimidinone, 6-methyl-2- 2814-20-2.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   (1-methylethyl)-.                                   716.21(a)(7)
  Solvent naphtha (coal)........  65996-79-4........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Sulfonic acids, petroleum.....  61789-85-3........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Tannins.......................  1401-55-4.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Tannins, reaction products      72854-27-4........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   with sodium bisulfite, sodium                       716.21(a)(7)
   polysulfide and sodium
   sulfite.

[[Page 122]]

 
  Tar oils, coal................  65996-82-9........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Tar, coal, dried and oxidized.  68918-16-1........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Tar, coal, high-temp..........  65996-89-6........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Tar, coal, high-temp., high-    68990-61-4........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   solids.                                             716.21(a)(7)
  Terpenes and Terpenoids, C10-   70084-98-9........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   30, distn. residues.                                716.21(a)(7)
  1-Tetracosanol................  506-51-4..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Tetradecane, 1-chloro-........  2425-54-9.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  1,3,5,7-Tetrazocine, octahydro- 2691-41-0.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   1,3,5,7-tetranitro-.                                716.21(a)(7)
  Thiazole, 4-methyl-...........  693-95-8..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Thiourea......................  62-56-6...........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  1,3,5-Triazine, hexahydro-      121-82-4..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   1,3,5-trinitro-.                                    716.21(a)(7)
  1,3,5-Triazine-2,4,6(1H,3H,5H)- 3779-63-3.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   trione, 1,3,5-tris(6-                               716.21(a)(7)
   isocyanatohexyl)-.
  1,3,5-Triazine-2,4-diamine, 6-  5915-41-3.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   chloro-N-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-                       716.21(a)(7)
   N'-ethyl-.
  1,3,5-Triazine-2,4-diamine, 6-  139-40-2..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   chloro-N,N'-bis(1-                                  716.21(a)(7)
   methylethyl)-.
  1,3,5-Triazine-2,4-diamine, 6-  1912-24-9.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   chloro-N-ethyl-N'-(1-                               716.21(a)(7)
   methylethyl)-.
  Urea, (hydroxymethyl)-........  1000-82-4.........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Urea, N'-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-  330-54-1..........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
   N,N-dimethyl-.                                      716.21(a)(7)
  Urea, sulfate (1:1)...........  21351-39-3........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
  Urea, sulfate (2:1)...........  17103-31-0........  Sec. September 29, 2006  November 28, 2006
                                                       716.21(a)(7)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


[53 FR 38645, Sept. 30, 1988]

    Editorial Note: For Federal Register citations affecting Sec. 
716.120, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the 
Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.fdsys.gov.

    Effective Date Note: At 59 FR 14115, Mar. 25, 1994, in Sec. 716.120 
paragraph (d), the chemical substances under the category ``propylene 
glycol ethers and esters'' and all related dates, were stayed effective 
Mar. 25, 1994.


<R03>
PART 717_RECORDS AND REPORTS OF ALLEGATIONS THAT CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
CAUSE SIGNIFICANT ADVERSE REACTIONS TO HEALTH OR THE ENVIRONMENT--
Table of Contents



                      Subpart A_General Provisions

Sec.
717.1 Scope and compliance.
717.3 Definitions.
717.5 Persons subject to this part.
717.7 Persons not subject to this part.
717.10 Allegations subject to this part.
717.12 Significant adverse reactions that must be recorded.
717.15 Recordkeeping requirements.
717.17 Inspection and reporting requirements.
717.19 Confidentiality.

    Authority: 15 U.S.C. 2607(c).

    Source: 48 FR 38187, Aug. 22, 1983, unless otherwise noted.


<R04>
                      Subpart A_General Provisions


<R05>
Sec. 717.1  Scope and compliance.

    Section 8 (c) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) requires 
manufacturers, processors, and distributors of chemical substances and 
mixtures:

[[Page 123]]

    (a) To keep ``records of significant adverse reactions to health or 
the environment, as determined by the Administrator by rule, alleged to 
have been caused by the substance or mixture.''
    (b) To ``permit inspection and submit copies of such records'', upon 
request of any designated representative of the Administrator. This rule 
implements section 8(c) of TSCA. It describes the records to be kept and 
prescribes the conditions under which certain firms must submit or make 
the records available to a duly designated representative of the 
Administrator.


<R05>
Sec. 717.3  Definitions.

    The definitions set forth in section 3 of TSCA and the following 
definitions apply to this part:
    (a) Allegation means a statement, made without formal proof or 
regard for evidence, that a chemical substance or mixture has caused a 
significant adverse reaction to health or the environment.
    (b) Firm or company means any person, that is subject to this part, 
as defined in Sec. 717.5.
    (c)(1) Known human effects means a commonly recognized human health 
effect of a particular substance or mixture as described either in:
    (i) Scientific articles or publications abstracted in standard 
reference sources.
    (ii) The firm's product labeling or material safety data sheets 
(MSDS).
    (2) However, an effect is not a ``known human effect'' if it:
    (i) Was a significantly more severe toxic effect than previously 
described.
    (ii) Was a manifestation of a toxic effect after a significantly 
shorter exposure period or lower exposure level than described.
    (iii) Was a manifestation of a toxic effect by an exposure route 
different from that described.
    (d) Manufacture or process means to manufacture or process for 
commercial purposes.
    (e)(1) Manufacture for commercial purposes means to import, produce, 
or manufacture with the purpose of obtaining an immediate or eventual 
commercial advantage for the manufacturer, and includes, among other 
things, such ``manufacture'' of any amount of a chemical substance or 
mixture:
    (i) For distribution in commerce, including for test marketing.
    (ii) For use by the manufacturer, including use for product research 
and development, or as an intermediate.
    (2) Manufacture for commercial purposes also applies to substances 
that are produced coincidentally during the manufacture, processing, 
use, or disposal of another substance or mixture, including both 
byproducts that are separated from that other substances or mixture and 
impurities that remain in that substance or mixture. Such byproducts and 
impurities may, or may not, in themselves have commercial value. They 
are nonetheless produced for the purpose of obtaining a commercial 
advantage since they are part of the manufacture of a chemical product 
for a commercial purpose.
    (f) Person includes any individual, firm, company, corporation, 
joint venture, partnership, sole proprietorship, association, or any 
other business entity, any State or political subdivision thereof, and 
any department, agency, or instrumentally of the Federal Government.
    (g) Process for commercial purposes means the preparation of a 
chemical substance or mixture, after its manufacture, for distribution 
in commerce with the purpose of obtaining an immediate or eventual 
commercial advantage for the processor. Processing of any amount of a 
chemical substance or mixture is included. If a chemical substance or 
mixture containing impurities is processed for commercial purposes, then 
those impurities are also processed for commercial purposes.
    (h) Retailer means a person who distributes in commerce a chemical 
substance, mixture, or article to ultimate purchasers who are not 
commercial entities.
    (i) Significant adverse reactions are reactions that may indicate a 
substantial impairment of normal activities, or long-lasting or 
irreversible damage to health or the environment.
    (j) Site means a contiguous property unit. Property divided only by 
a public right-of-way is considered one site. There may be multiple 
manufacturing,

[[Page 124]]

processing, or distribution activities occurring within a single site.
    (k) Substance means a chemical substance or mixture unless otherwise 
indicated.


<R05>
Sec. 717.5  Persons subject to this part.

    (a) Manufacturers. (1) All manufacturers of chemical substances are 
subject to this part except as provided in Sec. 717.7(a). If 
manufacture of a chemcial substance occurs at any site owned or 
controlled by a firm then that firm is subject to this part.
    (2) A manufacturer must collect:
    (i) Any allegation identifying a chemical substance it manufactures 
and any allegation identifying the operations in the manufacture of any 
chemical substance it manufactures.
    (ii) Any allegation identifying any of its own processing or 
distribution in commerce activities with respect to any chemical 
substance it manufactures.
    (iii) Any allegation identifying emissions, effluents, or other 
discharges from activities described in this paragraph.
    (iv) Any allegation identifying a substance produced coincidentally 
during processing, use, storage or disposal of a chemical substance it 
manufactures.
    (3) For the purpose of this part, owned or controlled means 
ownership of 50 percent or more of a firm's voting stock or other equity 
rights, or the power to control the management and policies of that 
firm.
    (b) Processors. (1) A person who processes chemical substances, who 
is not also a manufacturer of those chemical substances, is subject to 
this part if (i) the person processes chemical substances to produce 
mixtures, or (ii) the person repackages chemical substances or mixtures.
    (2) As a processor subject to this part such person must collect:
    (i) Any allegation identifying any mixture it produces and 
distributes in commerce and any allegation identifying any chemical 
substance or mixture it repackages and distributes in commerce.
    (ii) Any allegation identifying any of its own further processing or 
distribution in commerce activities of the products described in 
paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.
    (iii) Any allegation identifying emissions, effluents, or other 
discharges from activities described in this paragraph.
    (iv) Any allegation identifying a substance produced coincidentally 
during the processing, use, storage or disposal of the products 
described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.
    (c) SIC code. SIC codes applicable to this part are published in 
Standard Industrial Classification Manual--1972 and the 1977 Supplement. 
This manual and supplement may be obtained from the U.S. Government 
Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402--stock number 4101-0006 and 
stock number 003-005-0170-0 respectively. Where there is a conflict 
between the SIC code use of a term and the definition of that term in 
this part, the definition in this part applies.

[48 FR 38187, Aug. 22, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 46769, Nov. 13, 1985]


<R05>
Sec. 717.7  Persons not subject to this part.

    (a) Manufacturers. (1) Persons or site activities are exempt from 
this part if the means by which they manufacture a chemical substance 
solely involves mining or other solely extractive functions, e.g., those 
companies or sites within a company whose sole function is to mine 
mineral ores, extract petroleum or natural gas, quarry non-metallic 
minerals (including extraction of salts from seawater or brines), mine 
or otherwise extract coal, or separate gases from the atmosphere. This 
exemption may include, but is not necessarily limited to, firms engaged 
in activities as described in SIC Division B--Mining and SIC Code 2813--
Industrial Gases.
    (2) A person is not subject to this part if the chemical substances 
that person causes to be produced are limited to:
    (i) Chemical substances that result from chemical reactions that 
occur incidental to exposure of another chemical substance, mixture, or 
article to environmental factors such as air, moisture, microbial 
organisms, or sunlight.

[[Page 125]]

    (ii) Chemical substances that result from chemical reactions that 
occur incidental to storage or disposal of other chemical substances, 
mixtures, or articles.
    (iii) Chemical substances that result from chemical reactions that 
occur upon end use of other chemical substances, mixtures, or articles 
such as adhesives, paints, miscellaneous cleaners or other housekeeping 
products, fuel additives, water softening and treatment agents, 
photographic films, batteries, matches, or safety flares, and that are 
not themselves manufactured or imported for distribution in commerce for 
use as chemical intermediates.
    (iv) Chemical substances that result from chemical reactions that 
occur upon use of curable plastic or rubber molding compounds, inks, 
drying oils, metal finishing compounds, adhesives, or paints, or other 
chemical substance formed during the manufacture of an article destined 
for the marketplace without further chemical change of the chemical 
substance.
    (v) Chemical substances that result from chemical reactions that 
occur when (A) a stabilizer, colorant, odorant, antioxidant, filler, 
solvent, carrier, surfactant, plasticizer, corrosion inhibitor, 
antifoamer or defoamer, dispersant, precipitation-inhibitor, binder, 
emulsifier, deemulsifier, dewatering agent, agglomerating agent, 
adhesion promoter, flow modifier, pH adjuster, sequestrant, coagulant, 
flocculant, fire retardant, lubricant, chelating agent, or quality 
control reagent functions as intended, or (B) a chemical substance, 
which is intended solely to impart a specific physicochemical 
characteristic, functions as intended.
    (b) [Reserved]
    (c) Sole distributors. A person solely engaged in the distribution 
of chemical substances is exempt from this part, unless such person is 
also a manufacturer or processor subject to this part. For example, a 
``distributor'' who repackages chemical substances or mixtures is 
considered to be a processor and, thus, is not a sole distributor. Sole 
distributors may include, but are not limited to, those firms that 
distribute chemical substances as described in the wholesale trade SIC 
codes 5161--Chemicals and Allied Products, 5171--Petroleum Bulk Stations 
and Terminals, and 5172--Petroleum and Petroleum Products Wholesalers, 
Except Bulk Stations and Terminals.
    (d) Retailers. A person who is a retailer is exempt from this part 
unless such person is also a manufacturer or a processor subject to this 
part.

[48 FR 38187, Aug. 22, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 46770, Nov. 13, 1985]


<R05>
Sec. 717.10  Allegations subject to this part.

    (a) Allegations subject to this part are those allegations received 
on or after November 21, 1983 by persons subject to this part.
    (b) Allegations subject to this part are those that:
    (1) Are submitted either in writing and are signed by the alleger, 
or are submitted orally. In the case of an oral allegation, the firm 
must transcribe the allegation into written form, or it must inform the 
alleger that such allegation may be subject to this part and request 
that the alleger submit such allegation to the firm in writing and 
signed.
    (2) Implicate a substance that caused the stated significant adverse 
reaction by one of the following:
    (i) Naming the specific substance.
    (ii) Naming a mixture that contains a specific substance.
    (iii) Naming an article that contains a specific substance.
    (iv) Naming a company process or operation in which substances are 
involved.
    (v) Identifying an effluent, emission, or other discharge from a 
site of manufacturing, processing or distribution of a substance.
    (c) Allegations subject to this part may be made to a firm by any 
person, such as an employee of the firm, individual consumer, a neighbor 
of the firm's plant, another firm on behalf of its employees or an 
organization on behalf of its members.
    (d) EPA intends that firms should, to the maximum practical extent, 
provide allegers with information regarding the ultimate disposition of 
their allegations. For example, firms could provide a brief notice to 
the alleger stating that a record was created under

[[Page 126]]

this part based upon their allegation, or that a record was not created 
and briefly explain the reasons why not.


<R05>
Sec. 717.12  Significant adverse reactions that must be recorded.

    (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, significant 
adverse reactions to human health that must be recorded include but are 
not limited to:
    (1) Long-lasting or irreversible damage, such as cancer or birth 
defects.
    (2) Partial or complete impairment of bodily functions, such as 
reproductive disorders, neurological disorders or blood disorders.
    (3) An impairment of normal activities experienced by all or most of 
the persons exposed at one time.
    (4) An impairment of normal activities which is experienced each 
time an individual is exposed.
    (b) Firms are not required to record significant adverse reactions 
that are known human effects as defined in Sec. 717.3(c).
    (c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, significant 
adverse reactions to the environment that must be recorded, even if 
restricted to the environs of a plant or disposal site, include but are 
not limited to:
    (1) Gradual or sudden changes in the composition of animal life or 
plant life, including fungal or microbial organisms, in an area.
    (2) Abnormal number of deaths of organisms (e.g., fish kills).
    (3) Reduction of the reproductive success or the vigor of a species.
    (4) Reduction in agricultural productivity, whether crops or 
livestock.
    (5) Alterations in the behavior or distribution of a species.
    (6) Long lasting or irreversible contamination of components of the 
physical environment, especially in the case of ground water, and 
surface water and soil resources that have limited self-cleansing 
capability.
    (d) Firms are not required to record a significant adverse reaction 
to the environment if the alleged cause of that significant adverse 
reaction can be directly attributable to an accidental spill or other 
accidental discharge, emission exceeding permitted limits, or other 
incident of environmental contamination that has been reported to the 
Federal Government under any applicable authority.

[48 FR 38187, Aug. 22, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 23183, June 5, 1984; 58 
FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 717.15  Recordkeeping requirements.

    (a) Establishment and location of records. A firm subject to this 
part shall establish and maintain records of significant adverse 
reactions alleged to have been caused by chemical substances or mixtures 
manufactured or processed by the firm. Such records shall be kept at the 
firm's headquarters or at any other appropriate location central to the 
firm's chemical operations.
    (b) Content of records. The record shall consist of the following:
    (1) The original allegation as received.
    (2) An abstract of the allegation and other pertinent information as 
follows:
    (i) The name and address of the plant site which received the 
allegation.
    (ii) The date the allegation was received at that site.
    (iii) The implicated substance, mixture, article, company process or 
operation, or site discharge.
    (iv) A description of the alleger (e.g., ``company employee,'' 
``individual consumer,'' ``plant neighbor''). If the allegation involves 
a health effect, the sex and year of birth of the individual should be 
recorded, if ascertainable.
    (v) A description of the alleged health effect(s). The description 
must relate how the effect(s) became known and the route of exposure, if 
explained in the allegation.
    (vi) A description of the nature of the alleged environmental 
effect(s), identifying the affected plant and/or animal species, or 
contaminated portion of the physical environment.
    (3) The results of any self-initiated investigation with respect to 
an allegation. (EPA does not require persons subject to this part to 
investigate allegations received, and no provision of this part shall be 
construed to imply that EPA recommends, encourages or requires such 
investigation.)

[[Page 127]]

    (4) Copies of any further required records or reports relating to 
the allegation. For example, if an employee allegation results in a 
requirement for the firm to record the case on Occupational Safety and 
Health Form 101 or appropriate substitute (see 29 CFR part 1904 for 
requirements under the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970), a 
copy of that OSHA record must be included in the allegation record.
    (c) File structure. Records must be retrievable by the alleged cause 
of the significant adverse reaction, which cause may be one of the 
following:
    (1) A specific chemical identity.
    (2) A mixture.
    (3) An article.
    (4) A company process or operation.
    (5) A site emission, effluent or other discharge.
    (d) Retention period. Records of significant adverse reactions to 
the health of employees shall be retained for a period of 30 years from 
the date such reactions were first reported to or known by the person 
maintaining such records. This provision requires persons subject to 
this part to retain for 30 years an employee health related allegation, 
arising from any employment related exposure, whether or not such 
allegation was submitted by or on the behalf of that recordkeeper's own 
employee. Any other record of significant adverse reactions shall be 
maintained for a period of five years from the date the information 
contained in the record was first reported to or known by the person 
maintaining the record.
    (e) Transfer of records. (1) If a firm ceases to do business, the 
successor must receive and keep all the records that must be kept under 
this part.
    (2) If a firm ceases to do business and there is no successor to 
receive and keep the records for the prescribed period, these records 
must be transmitted to EPA. See Sec. 717.17(c) for the address to which 
such records must be sent.

[48 FR 38187, Aug. 22, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 23183, June 5, 1984; 58 
FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 717.17  Inspection and reporting requirements.

    (a) Inspection. Firms must make records of allegations available for 
inspection by any duly designated representative of the Administrator.
    (b) Reporting. Each person who is required to keep records under 
this part must submit copies of those records to the Agency as required 
by the EPA Administrator or appropriate designee. EPA will notify those 
responsible for reporting by letter or will announce any such 
requirements for submitting copies of records by a notice in the Federal 
Register. Such letter or notice will be signed by the Administrator or 
appropriate designee, and will specify which records or portion of 
records must be submitted. The reporting period will be specified by the 
letter or notice but in no case will such reporting period be less than 
45 days from the date of the letter or the effective date of the notice.
    (c) How to report. When required to report, firms must submit copies 
of records (preferably by certified mail) to the Document Control Office 
(DCO) (7407M), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics (OPPT), 
Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., 
Washington, DC 20460-0001, ATTN: 8(c) Allegations.

[48 FR 38187, Aug. 22, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 23183, June 5, 1984; 52 
FR 20084, May 29, 1987; 53 FR 12523, Apr. 15, 1988; 58 FR 34204, June 
23, 1993; 60 FR 34464, July 3, 1995; 71 FR 33641, June 12, 2006]


<R05>
Sec. 717.19  Confidentiality.

    (a) Any person submitting copies of records may assert a business 
confidentiality claim covering all or part of the submitted information. 
Any information covered by a claim will be disclosed by EPA only as 
provided in procedures set forth at part 2 of this title.
    (b) If no claim accompanies a document at the time it is submitted 
to EPA, the document will be placed in an open file available to the 
public without further notice to the respondent.
    (c) To asset a claim of confidentiality for information contained in 
a submitted record, the respondent must submit two copies of the 
document.
    (1) One copy must be complete. In that copy, the respondent must 
indicate what information, if any, is claimed as confidential by marking 
the specific information on each page with

[[Page 128]]

a label such as ``confidential'', ``proprietary'', or ``trade secret'' 
and briefly state the basis of the claim.
    (2) If some information is claimed as confidential, the respondent 
must submit a second copy of the record. The second copy must be 
complete, except that all information claimed as confidential in the 
first copy must be deleted.
    (3) The first copy will be for internal use by EPA. The second copy 
will be placed in an open file to be available to the public.
    (4) Failure to furnish a second copy when information is claimed as 
confidential in the first copy will be considered a presumptive waiver 
of the claim of confidentiality. EPA will notify the respondent by 
certified mail that a finding of a presumptive waiver of the claim of 
confidentiality has been made. The respondent will be given 30 days from 
the date of receipt of notification to submit the required second copy. 
If the respondent fails to submit the second copy within the 30 days, 
EPA will place the first copy in the public file.


<R03>
PART 720_PREMANUFACTURE NOTIFICATION--Table of Contents



                      Subpart A_General Provisions

Sec.
720.1 Scope.
720.3 Definitions.

                         Subpart B_Applicability

720.22 Persons who must report.
720.25 Determining whether a chemical substance is on the Inventory.
720.30 Chemicals not subject to notification requirements.
720.36 Exemption for research and development.
720.38 Exemptions for test marketing.

                          Subpart C_Notice Form

720.40 General.
720.45 Information that must be included in the notice form.
720.50 Submission of test data and other data concerning the health and 
          environmental effects of a substance.
720.57 Imports.

                    Subpart D_Disposition of Notices

720.60 General.
720.62 Notice that notification is not required.
720.65 Acknowledgement of receipt of a notice; errors in the notice; 
          incomplete submissions; and false and misleading statements.
720.70 Notice in the Federal Register.
720.75 Notice review period.
720.78 Recordkeeping.

       Subpart E_Confidentiality and Public Access to Information

720.80 General provisions.
720.85 Chemical identity.
720.87 Categories or proposed categories of uses of a new chemical 
          substance.
720.90 Data from health and safety studies.
720.95 Public file.

             Subpart F_Commencement of Manufacture or Import

720.102 Notice of commencement of manufacture or import.

                  Subpart G_Compliance and Inspections

720.120 Compliance.
720.122 Inspections.

    Authority: 15 U.S.C. 2604, 2607, and 2613.

    Source: 48 FR 21742, May 13, 1983, unless otherwise noted.


<R04>
                      Subpart A_General Provisions


<R05>
Sec. 720.1  Scope.

    This part establishes procedures for the reporting of new chemical 
substances by manufacturers and importers under section 5 of the Toxic 
Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. 2604. This part applies to 
microorganisms only to the extent provided by part 725 of this chapter. 
The rule defines the persons and chemical substances subject to the 
reporting requirements, prescribes the contents of section 5 notices, 
and establishes procedures for submitting notices. The rule also 
establishes EPA policy regarding claims of confidentiality for, and 
public disclosure of, various categories of information submitted in 
connection with section 5 notices.

[48 FR 21742, May 13, 1983, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 62 
FR 17932, Apr. 11, 1997]


<R05>
Sec. 720.3  Definitions.

    (a)(1) For the purposes of this part, the terms cosmetic, device, 
drug, food,

[[Page 129]]

and food additive have the meanings contained in the Federal Food, Drug, 
and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. 321 et seq., and the regulations issued 
under it. In addition, the term ``food'' includes poultry and poultry 
products, as defined in the Poultry Products Inspection Act, 21 U.S.C. 
453 et seq.; meats and meat food products, as defined in the Federal 
Meat Inspection Act, 21 U.S.C. 60 et seq.; and eggs and egg products, as 
defined in the Egg Products Inspection Act, 21 U.S.C. 1033 et seq.
    (2) The term pesticide has the meaning contained in the Federal 
Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, 7 U.S.C. 136 et seq. and 
the regulations issued under it.
    (3) The terms byproduct material, source material, and special 
nuclear material have the meanings contained in the Atomic Energy Act of 
1954, 42 U.S.C 2014 et seq. and the regulations issued under it.
    (b) Act means the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. 2601 et 
seq.
    (c) Article means a manufactured item:
    (1) Which is formed to a specific shape or design during 
manufacture;
    (2) Which has end use function(s) dependent in whole or in part upon 
its shape or design during end use; and
    (3) Which has either no change of chemical composition during its 
end use or only those changes of composition which have no commercial 
purpose separate from that of the article and that may occur as 
described in Sec. 720.30(h)(5), except that fluids and particles are 
not considered articles regardless of shape or design.
    (d) Byproduct means a chemical substance produced without a separate 
commercial intent during the manufacture, processing, use, or disposal 
of another chemical substance or mixture.
    (e) Chemical substance means any organic or inorganic substance of a 
particular molecular identity, including any combination of such 
substances occurring in whole or in part as a result of a chemical 
reaction or occurring in nature, and any chemical element or uncombined 
radical, except that ``chemical substance'' does not include:
    (1) Any mixture.
    (2) Any pesticide when manufactured, processed, or distributed in 
commerce for use as a pesticide.
    (3) Tobacco or any tobacco product.
    (4) Any source material, special nuclear material, or byproduct 
material.
    (5) Any pistol, firearm, revolver, shells, or cartridges.
    (6) Any food, food additive, drug, cosmetic, or device, when 
manufactured, processed, or distributed in commerce for use as a food, 
food additive, drug, cosmetic, or device.
    (f) Commerce means trade, traffic, transportation, or other commerce 
(1) between a place in a State and any place outside of such State, or 
(2) which affects trade, traffic, transportation, or commerce between a 
place in a State and any place outside of such State.
    (g) Customs territory of the United States means the 50 States, 
Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia.
    (h) Director means the Director of the EPA Office of Pollution 
Prevention and Toxics.
    (i) Distribute in commerce means to sell in commerce, to introduce 
or deliver for introduction into commerce, or to hold after introduction 
into commerce.
    (j) EPA means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
    (k) Health and safety study or study means any study of any effect 
of a chemical substance or mixture on health or the environment or on 
both, including underlying data and epidemiological studies, studies of 
occupational exposure to a chemical substance or mixture, toxicological, 
clinical, and ecological, or other studies of a chemical substance or 
mixture, and any test performed under the Act. Chemical identity is 
always part of a health and safety study.
    (1) Not only is information which arises as a result of a formal, 
disciplined study included, but other information relating to the 
effects of a chemical substance or mixture on health or the environment 
is also included. Any data that bear on the effects of a chemical 
substance on health or the environment would be included.
    (2) Examples include:
    (i) Long- and short-term tests of mutagenicity, carcinogenicity, or

[[Page 130]]

teratogenicity; data on behavioral disorders; dermatoxicity; 
pharmacological effects; mammalian absorption, distribution, metabolism, 
and excretion; cumulative, additive, and synergistic effects; acute, 
subchronic, and chronic effects; and structure/activity analyses.
    (ii) Tests for ecological or other environmental effects on 
invertebrates, fish, or other animals, and plants, including: Acute 
toxicity tests, chronic toxicity tests, critical life stage tests, 
behavioral tests, algal growth tests, seed germination tests, plant 
growth or damage tests, microbial function tests, bioconcentration or 
bioaccumulation tests, and model ecosystem (microcosm) studies.
    (iii) Assessments of human and environmental exposure, including 
workplace exposure, and impacts of a particular chemical substance or 
mixture on the environment, including surveys, tests, and studies of: 
Biological, photochemical, and chemical degradation; air, water, and 
soil transport; biomagnification and bioconcentration; and chemical and 
physical properties, e.g., boiling point, vapor pressure, evaporation 
rates from soil and water, octanol/water partition coefficient, and 
water solubility.
    (iv) Monitoring data, when they have been aggregated and analyzed to 
measure the exposure of humans or the environment to a chemical 
substance or mixture.
    (v) Any assessments of risk to health and the environment resulting 
from the manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, use, or 
disposal of the chemical substance.
    (l) Importer means any person who imports a chemical substance, 
including a chemical substance as part of a mixture or article, into the 
customs territory of the United States. ``Importer'' includes the person 
primarily liable for the payment of any duties on the merchandise or an 
authorized agent acting on his or her behalf. The term also includes, as 
appropriate:
    (1) The consignee.
    (2) The importer of record.
    (3) The actual owner if an actual owner's declaration and 
superseding bond has been filed in accordance with 19 CFR 141.20; or
    (4) The transferee, if the right to draw merchandise in a bonded 
warehouse has been transferred in accordance with subpart C of 19 CFR 
part 144. (See ``principal importer.'')
    (m) Impurity means a chemical substance which is unintentionally 
present with another chemical substance.
    (n) Intermediate means any chemical substance that is consumed, in 
whole or in part, in chemical reactions used for the intentional 
manufacture of another chemical substance(s) or mixture(s), or that is 
intentionally present for the purpose of altering the rates of such 
chemical reactions.
    (o) Inventory means the list of chemical substances manufactured or 
processed in the United States that EPA compiled and keeps current under 
section 8(b) of the Act.
    (p) Known to or reasonably ascertainable by means all information in 
a person's possession or control, plus all information that a reasonable 
person similarly situated might be expected to possess, control, or 
know.
    (q) Manufacture means to produce or manufacture in the United States 
or import into the customs territory of the United States.
    (r) Manufacture or import for commercial purposes means:
    (1) To import, produce, or manufacture with the purpose of obtaining 
an immediate or eventual commercial advantage for the manufacturer or 
importer, and includes, among other things, ``manufacture'' of any 
amount of a chemical substance or mixture:
    (i) For commercial distribution, including for test marketing.
    (ii) For use by the manufacturer, including use for product research 
and development or as an intermediate.
    (2) The term also applies to substances that are produced 
coincidentally during the manufacture, processing, use, or disposal of 
another substance or mixture, including byproducts that are separated 
from that other substance or mixture and impurities that remain in that 
substance or mixture. Byproducts and impurities without separate 
commercial value are nonetheless produced for the purpose of obtaining a 
commercial advantage, since they are part of the manufacture

[[Page 131]]

of a chemical substance for commercial purposes.
    (s) Manufacture solely for export means to manufacture or import for 
commercial purposes a chemical substance solely for export from the 
United States under the following restrictions on activities in the 
United States:
    (1) Distribution in commerce is limited to purposes of export or 
processing solely for export as defined in Sec. 721.3 of this chapter.
    (2) The manufacturer or importer, and any person to whom the 
substance is distributed for purposes of export or processing solely for 
export (as defined in Sec. 721.3 of this chapter), may not use the 
substance except in small quantities solely for research and development 
in accordance with Sec. 720.36.
    (t) Manufacturer means a person who imports, produces, or 
manufactures a chemical substance. A person who extracts a component 
chemical substance from a previously existing chemical substance or a 
complex combination of substances is a manufacturer of that component 
chemical substance. A person who contracts with a manufacturer to 
manufacture or produce a chemical substance is also a manufacturer if 
(1) the manufacturer manufactures or produces the substance exclusively 
for that person, and (2) that person specifies the identity of the 
substance and controls the total amount produced and the basic 
technology for the plant process.
    (u) Mixture means any combination of two or more chemical substances 
if the combination does not occur in nature and is not, in whole or in 
part, the result of a chemical reaction; except ``mixture'' does include 
(1) any combination which occurs, in whole or in part, as a result of a 
chemical reaction if the combination could have been manufactured for 
commercial purposes without a chemical reaction at the time the chemical 
substances comprising the combination were combined, and if all of the 
chemical substances comprising the combination are not new chemical 
substances, and (2) hydrates of a chemical substance or hydrated ions 
formed by association of a chemical substance with water, so long as the 
nonhydrated form is itself not a new chemical substance.
    (v) New chemical substance means any chemical substance which is not 
included on the Inventory.
    (w) Nonisolated intermediate means any intermediate that is not 
intentionally removed from the equipment in which it is manufactured, 
including the reaction vessel in which it is manufactured, equipment 
which is ancillary to the reaction vessel, and any equipment through 
which the chemical substance passes during a continuous flow process, 
but not including tanks or other vessels in which the substance is 
stored after its manufacture.
    (x) Person means any natural person, firm, company, corporation, 
joint-venture, partnership, sole proprietorship, association, or any 
other business entity, any State or political subdivision thereof, any 
municipality, any interstate body, and any department, agency or 
instrumentality of the Federal Government.
    (y) Possession or control means in possession or control of the 
submitter, or of any subsidiary, partnership in which the submitter is a 
general partner, parent company, or any company or partnership which the 
parent company owns or controls, if the subsidiary, parent company, or 
other company or partnership is associated with the submitter in the 
research, development, test marketing, or commercial marketing of the 
chemical substance in question. (A parent company owns or controls 
another company if the parent owns or controls 50 percent or more of the 
other company's voting stock. A parent company owns or controls any 
partnership in which it is a general partner). Information is included 
within this definition if it is:
    (1) In files maintained by submitter's employees who are:
    (i) Associated with research, development, test marketing, or 
commercial marketing of the chemical substance in question.
    (ii) Reasonably likely to have such data.
    (2) Maintained in the files of other agents of the submitter who are 
associated with research, development, test marketing, or commercial 
marketing of the chemical substance in question

[[Page 132]]

in the course of their employment as such agents.
    (z) Principal importer means the first importer who, knowing that a 
new chemical substance will be imported rather than manufactured 
domestically, specifies the identity of the chemical substance and the 
total amount to be imported. Only persons who are incorporated, 
licensed, or doing business in the United States may be principal 
importers.
    (aa) Process means the preparation of a chemical substance or 
mixture, after its manufacture, for distribution in commerce (1) in the 
same form or physical state as, or in a different form or physical state 
from, that in which it was received by the person so preparing such 
substance or mixture, or (2) as part of a mixture or article containing 
the chemical substance or mixture.
    (bb) Processor means any person who processes a chemical substance 
or mixture.
    (cc) Small quantities solely for research and development (or 
``small quantities solely for purposes of scientific experimentation or 
analysis or chemical research on, or analysis of, such substance or 
another substance, including such research or analysis for the 
development of a product'') means quantities of a chemical substance 
manufactured, imported, or processed or proposed to be manufactured, 
imported, or processed solely for research and development that are not 
greater than reasonably necessary for such purposes.
    (dd) State means any State of the United States and the District of 
Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the 
Canal Zone, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other 
territory or possession of the United States.
    (ee) Technically qualified individual means a person or persons (1) 
who, because of education, training, or experience, or a combination of 
these factors, is capable of understanding the health and environmental 
risks associated with the chemical substance which is used under his or 
her supervision, (2) who is responsible for enforcing appropriate 
methods of conducting scientific experimentation, analysis, or chemical 
research to minimize such risks, and (3) who is responsible for the 
safety assessments and clearances related to the procurement, storage, 
use, and disposal of the chemical substance as may be appropriate or 
required within the scope of conducting a research and development 
activity.
    (ff) Test data means data from a formal or informal test or 
experiment, including information concerning the objectives, 
experimental methods and materials, protocols, results, data analyses, 
recorded observations, monitoring data, measurements, and conclusions 
from a test or experiment.
    (gg) Test marketing means the distribution in commerce of no more 
than a predetermined amount of a chemical substance, mixture, or article 
containing that chemical substance or mixture, by a manufacturer or 
processor, to no more than a defined number of potential customers to 
explore market capability in a competitive situation during a 
predetermined testing period prior to the broader distribution of that 
chemical substance, mixture, or article in commerce.
    (hh) United States, when used in the geographic sense, means all of 
the States.
    (ii) Central Data Exchange or CDX means EPA's centralized electronic 
document receiving system, or its successors.
    (jj) e-PMN software means electronic-PMN software created by EPA for 
use in preparing and submitting Premanufacture Notices (PMNs) and other 
TSCA section 5 notices and support documents electronically to the 
Agency.
    (kk) Support documents means material and information submitted to 
EPA in support of a TSCA section 5 notice, including but not limited to, 
correspondence, amendments (if notices for these amendments were 
submitted prior to January 19, 2016), and test data. The term ``support 
documents'' does not include orders under TSCA section 5(e) (either 
consent orders or orders imposed pursuant to TSCA section 5(e)(2)(B)).

[48 FR 21742, May 13, 1983, as amended at 51 FR 15101, Apr. 22, 1986; 75 
FR 784, Jan. 6, 2010; 80 FR 42745, July 20, 2015]

[[Page 133]]


<R04>
                         Subpart B_Applicability


<R05>
Sec. 720.22  Persons who must report.

    (a)(1) Any person who intends to manufacture a new chemical 
substance in the United States for commercial purposes must submit a 
notice unless the substance is excluded under Sec. 720.30.
    (2) If a person contracts with a manufacturer to manufacture or 
produce a new chemical substance, and (i) the manufacturer manufactures 
or produces the substance exclusively for that person, and (ii) that 
person specifies the identity of the substance, and controls the total 
amount produced and the basic technology for the plant process, that 
person must submit the notice. If it is unclear who must report, EPA 
should be contacted to determine who must submit the notice.
    (3) Only manufacturers that are incorporated, licensed, or doing 
business in the United States may submit a notice.
    (b)(1) Any person who intends to import a new chemical substance 
into the United States for commercial purposes must submit a notice, 
unless the substance is excluded under Sec. 720.30 or unless the 
substance is imported as part of an article.
    (2) When several persons are involved in an import transaction, the 
notice must be submitted by the principal importer. If no one person 
fits the principal importer definition in a particular transaction, the 
importer should contact EPA to determine who must submit the notice for 
that transaction.


<R05>
Sec. 720.25  Determining whether a chemical substance is on the
Inventory.

    (a) A new chemical substance is any chemical substance that is not 
currently listed on the Inventory.
    (b)(1) A chemical substance is listed in the public portion of the 
Inventory by a specific chemical name (either a Chemical Abstracts (CA) 
Index Name or a CA Preferred Name) and a Chemical Abstracts Service 
(CAS) Registry Number if its identity is not confidential. If its 
identity is confidential, it is listed in the public portion of the 
Inventory by a TSCA Accession Number and a generic chemical name that 
masks the specific substance identity. The confidential substance is 
listed by its specific chemical name only in the confidential portion of 
the Inventory, which is not available to the public. A person who 
intends to manufacture (including import) a chemical substance not 
listed by specific chemical name in the public portion of the Inventory 
may ask EPA whether the substance is included in the confidential 
Inventory. EPA will answer such an inquiry only if EPA determines that 
the person has a bona fide intent to manufacture (including import) the 
chemical substance for commercial purposes.
    (2) To establish a bona fide intent to manufacture (including 
import) a chemical substance, the person who proposes to manufacture the 
substance must submit the request to EPA via CDX. Prior to submission to 
EPA via CDX, such bona fide intents to manufacture (including import) 
must be generated and completed using e-PMN software. See Sec. 
720.40(a)(2)(ii) for information on how to access the e-PMN software. A 
bona fide intent to manufacture (including import) must contain:
    (i) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this 
section, the specific chemical identity of the substance that the person 
intends to manufacture (including import), using the currently correct 
CA Index name for the substance and the other correct chemical identity 
information in accordance with Sec. 720.45(a) (1), (2), and (3).
    (ii) A signed statement that the person intends to manufacture 
(including import) that chemical substance for commercial purposes.
    (iii)(A) A brief description of the research and development 
activities conducted to date related to the substance, including the 
year in which the person first started to conduct research or 
development activity on the substance, and the general types of research 
and development activities conducted thus far (e.g., synthesis, 
substance isolation/purification, formulating, product development, 
process development, end-use application, toxicity testing, etc.). The 
person must also indicate whether any pilot plant or production-scale 
plant evaluations have been conducted involving the

[[Page 134]]

manufacture or processing of the substance.
    (B) If an importer is unable to provide the information requested in 
paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(A) of this section from the foreign manufacturer 
or supplier, the following information shall be submitted:
    (1) A brief statement indicating how long the substance has been in 
commercial use outside of the United States.
    (2) The name of a country in which it has been commercially used.
    (3) Whether the importer believes that the substance has already 
been used commercially, in any country, for the same purpose or 
application that the importer is intending.
    (iv) A specific description of the major intended application or use 
of the substance.
    (v) An infrared spectrum of the substance, or alternative spectra or 
other data which identify the substance if infrared analysis is not 
suitable for the substance or does not yield a reasonable amount of 
structural information. When using alternative spectra or instrumental 
analysis, the person must submit a spectrum or instrumental readout for 
the substance.
    (vi) The estimated date (month/year) in which the person intends to 
submit a Premanufacture Notice (PMN) for this substance if EPA informs 
the notice submitter that the substance is not on the Inventory.
    (vii) The address of the facility under the control of the submitter 
at which the manufacture or processing of the substance would most 
likely occur. For an imported substance, the facility under the control 
of the importer at which processing of the substance would likely occur, 
if any.
    (viii)(A) For substances intended to be manufactured in the United 
States, a description of the most probable manufacturing process that 
would be used by the submitter to produce the substance for non-exempt 
commercial purposes.
    (B) For substances intended to be imported, a brief description of 
how the submitter is most likely to process or use the substance for a 
commercial purpose. If the substance is not expected to be processed or 
used at any facility under the importer's control, a statement to this 
effect must be included along with a description of how the substance 
will be processed or used at sites controlled by others, if this 
information is known or reasonably ascertainable.
    (3)(i) If an importer cannot provide the chemical identity 
information required by paragraph (b)(2) (i) and (v) of this section 
because it is claimed confidential by its foreign manufacturer or 
supplier, the foreign manufacturer or supplier must supply the required 
information directly to EPA in accordance with Sec. 720.45(a) (1), (2), 
and (3) and reference the importer's notice. If the appropriate 
supporting document from the foreign party is not received within 30 
days after EPA receives the importer's notice, the notice will be 
considered incomplete.
    (ii) If a manufacturer cannot provide all of the required 
information in accordance with Sec. 720.45(a) (1), (2), and (3) because 
the new chemical substance is manufactured using a reactant that has a 
specific chemical identity claimed as confidential by its supplier, the 
notice must contain chemical identity information that is as complete as 
known by the manufacturer. In addition, a letter of support for the 
notice must then be sent to EPA by the chemical supplier of the 
confidential reactant, providing the specific chemical identity of the 
proprietary reactant. The letter of support must reference the 
manufacturer's notice. If the appropriate supporting document from the 
supplier is not received within 30 days after EPA receives the 
manufacturer's notice, the notice will be considered incomplete.
    (4) EPA will review the information submitted by the proposed 
manufacturer (including importer) under this paragraph to determine 
whether it has a bona fide intent to manufacture (including import) the 
chemical substance. If necessary, EPA will compare this information to 
the information requested for the confidential chemical substance under 
Sec. 720.85(b)(3)(iii).
    (5) If the proposed manufacturer (including importer) has shown a 
bona fide intent to manufacture (including import) the substance, and 
has provided

[[Page 135]]

sufficient unambiguous chemical identity information so EPA can make a 
conclusive determination of the chemical substance's Inventory status, 
EPA will search the confidential Inventory and inform the proposed 
manufacturer (including importer) whether the chemical substance is on 
the confidential Inventory.
    (6) If the chemical substance is found on the confidential 
Inventory, EPA will notify the person(s) who originally reported the 
chemical substance that another person has demonstrated a bona fide 
intent to manufacture (including import) the substance and therefore was 
told that the chemical substance is on the Inventory.
    (7) A disclosure of a confidential chemical identity to a person 
with a bona fide intent to manufacture (including import) the particular 
chemical substance will not be considered a public disclosure of 
confidential business information under section 14 of the Act.
    (8) EPA will answer an inquiry on whether a particular chemical 
substance is on the confidential Inventory within 30 days after receipt 
of a complete submission under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
    (9) If the required chemical identity information has not been 
reported correctly or completely in the notice (except as provided under 
paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section) or if any other required data or 
information has been omitted or is incomplete, EPA will consider the 
whole notice to be incomplete. As soon as an incomplete notice is 
identified as such by EPA, the Agency will immediately return the notice 
directly to the submitter. The submitter must then resubmit the whole, 
completed bona fide notice to EPA in order to have the Agency perform 
the desired Inventory search and respond to the notice.

[48 FR 21742, May 13, 1983, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 60 
FR 16309, Mar. 29, 1995; 80 FR 42745, July 20, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 720.30  Chemicals not subject to notification requirements.

    The following substances are not subject to the notification 
requirements of this part:
    (a) Any substance which is not a ``chemical substance'' as defined 
in Sec. 720.3(e).
    (b) Any mixture as defined in Sec. 720.3(u). \1\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \1\ A new chemical substance that is manufactured or imported as 
part of a mixture is subject to the requirements of this part. This 
exclusion applies only to a mixture as a whole and not to any chemical 
substances which are part of the mixture.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (c) Any new chemical substance which will be manufactured or 
imported in small quantities solely for research and development under 
Sec. 720.36.
    (d) Any new chemical substance which will be manufactured or 
imported solely for test-marketing purposes under an exemption granted 
under Sec. 720.38.
    (e) Any new chemical substance manufactured solely for export if, 
when the substance is distributed in commerce:
    (1) The substance is labeled in accordance with section 12(a)(1)(B) 
of the Act.
    (2) The manufacturer knows that the person to whom the substance is 
being distributed intends to export it or process it solely for export 
as defined in Sec. 721.3 of this chapter.
    (f) Any new chemical substance which is manufactured or imported 
under the terms of a rule promulgated under section 5(h)(4) of the Act.
    (g) Any byproduct if its only commercial purpose is for use by 
public or private organizations that (1) burn it as a fuel, (2) dispose 
of it as a waste, including in a landfill or for enriching soil, or (3) 
extract component chemical substances from it for commercial purposes. 
(This exclusion only applies to the byproduct; it does not apply to the 
component substances extracted from the byproduct.)
    (h) The chemical substances described below: (Although they are 
manufactured for commercial purposes under the Act, they are not 
manufactured for distribution in commerce as chemical substances per se 
and have no commercial purpose separate from the substance, mixture, or 
article of which they are a part.)
    (1) Any impurity.
    (2) Any byproduct which is not used for commercial purposes.

[[Page 136]]

    (3) Any chemical substance which results from a chemical reaction 
that occurs incidental to exposure of another chemical substance, 
mixture, or article to environmental factors such as air, moisture, 
microbial organisms, or sunlight.
    (4) Any chemical substance which results from a chemical reaction 
that occurs incidental to storage or disposal of another chemical 
substance, mixture, or article.
    (5) Any chemical substance which results from a chemical reaction 
that occurs upon end use of another chemical substance, mixture, or 
article such as an adhesive, paint, miscellaneous cleanser or other 
housekeeping product, fuel additive, water softening and treatment 
agent, photographic film, battery, match, or safety flare, and which is 
not itself manufactured or imported for distribution in commerce or for 
use as an intermediate.
    (6) Any chemical substance which results from a chemical reaction 
that occurs upon use of curable plastic or rubber molding compounds, 
inks, drying oils, metal finishing compounds, adhesives, or paints, or 
any other chemical substance formed during the manufacture of an article 
destined for the marketplace without further chemical change of the 
chemical substance except for those chemical changes that occur as 
described elsewhere in this paragraph.
    (7) Any chemical substance which results from a chemical reaction 
that occurs when (i) a stabilizer, colorant, odorant, antioxidant, 
filler, solvent, carrier, surfactant, plasticizer, corrosion inhibitor, 
antifoamer or defoamer, dispersant, precipitation inhibitor, binder, 
emulsifier, deemulsifier, dewater ing agent, agglomerating agent, 
adhesion promoter, flow modifier, pH neutralizer, sequesterant, 
coagulant, flocculant, fire retardant, lubricant, chelating agent, or 
quality control reagent functions as intented, or (ii) a chemical 
substance, which is intended solely to impart a specific physiochemical 
characteristic, functions as intended.
    (8) Any nonisolated intermediate.
    (i) Any chemical substance which is manufactured solely for non-
commercial research and development purposes. Non-commercial research 
and development purposes include scientific experimentation, research, 
or analysis conducted by academic, government, or independent not-for-
profit research organizations (e.g., universities, colleges, teaching 
hospitals, and research institutes), unless the activity is for eventual 
commercial purposes.

[48 FR 21742, May 13, 1983, as amended at 51 FR 15101, Apr. 22, 1986]


<R05>
Sec. 720.36  Exemption for research and development.

    (a) This part does not apply to a chemical substance if the 
following conditions are met:
    (1) The chemical substance is manufactured or imported only in small 
quantities solely for research and development.
    (2) The manufacturer or importer notifies all persons in its employ 
or to whom it directly distributes the chemical substance, who are 
engaged in experimentation, research, or analysis on the chemical 
substance, including the manufacture, processing, use, transport, 
storage, and disposal of the substance associated with research and 
development activities, of any risk to health, identified under 
paragraph (b) of this section, which may be associated with the 
substance. The notification must be made in accordance with paragraph 
(c) of this section.
    (3) The chemical substance is used by, or directly under the 
supervision of, a technically qualified individual.
    (b)(1) To determine whether notification under paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section is required, the manufacturer or importer must review and 
evaluate the following information to determine whether there is reason 
to believe there is any potential risk to health which may be associated 
with the chemical substance:
    (i) Information in its possession or control concerning any 
significant adverse reaction by persons exposed to the chemical 
substance which may reasonably be associated with such exposure.
    (ii) Information provided to the manufacturer or importer by a 
supplier or any other person concerning a health risk believed to be 
associated with the substance.

[[Page 137]]

    (iii) Health and environmental effects data in its possession or 
control concerning the substance.
    (iv) Information on health effects which accompanies any EPA rule or 
order issued under sections 4, 5, or 6 of the Act that applies to the 
substance and of which the manufacturer or importer has knowledge.
    (2) When the research and development activity is conducted solely 
in a laboratory and exposure to the chemical substance is controlled 
through the implementation of prudent laboratory practices for handling 
chemical substances of unknown toxicity, and any distribution, except 
for purposes of disposal, is to other such laboratories for further 
research and development activity, the information specified in 
paragraph (b)(1) of this section need not be reviewed and evaluated. 
(For purposes of this paragraph, a laboratory is a contained research 
facility where relatively small quantities of chemical substances are 
used on a non-production basis, and where activities involve the use of 
containers for reactions, transfers, and other handling of substances 
designed to be easily manipulated by a single individual.)
    (c)(1) The manufacturer or importer must notify the persons 
identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section by means of a container 
labeling system, conspicuous placement of notices in areas where 
exposure may occur, written notification to each person potentially 
exposed, or any other method of notification which adequately informs 
persons of health risks which the manufacturer or importer has reason to 
believe may be associated with the substance, as determined under 
paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
    (2) If the manufacturer or importer distributes a chemical substance 
manufactured or imported under this section to persons not in its 
employ, the manufacturer or importer must in written form:
    (i) Notify those persons that the substance is to be used only for 
research and development purposes.
    (ii) Provide the notice of health risks specified in paragraph 
(c)(1) of this section.
    (3) The adequacy of any notification under this section is the 
responsibility of the manufacturer or importer.
    (d) A chemical substance is not exempt from reporting under this 
part if any amount of the substance, including as part of a mixture, is 
processed, distributed in commerce, or used, for any commercial purpose 
other than research and development, except where the chemical substance 
is processed, distributed in commerce, or used only as an impurity or as 
part of an article.
    (e) Quantities of the chemical substance, or of mixtures or articles 
containing the chemical substance, remaining after completion of 
research and development activities may be:
    (1) Disposed of as a waste in accordance with applicable Federal, 
state, and local regulations, or
    (2) Used for the following commercial purposes:
    (i) Burning it as a fuel.
    (ii) Reacting or otherwise processing it to form other chemical 
substances for commercial purposes, including extracting component 
chemical substances.
    (f) Quantities of research and development substances existing 
solely as impurities in a product or incorporated into an article, in 
accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, and quantities of 
research and development substances used solely for commercial purposes 
listed in paragraph (e) of this section, are not subject to the 
requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, once 
research and development activities have been completed.
    (g) A person who manufactures or imports a chemical substance in 
small quantities solely for research and development is not required to 
comply with the requirements of this section if the person's exclusive 
intention is to perform research and development activities solely for 
the purpose of determining whether the substance can be used as a 
pesticide.

[51 FR 15102, Apr. 22, 1986]


<R05>
Sec. 720.38  Exemptions for test marketing.

    (a) Any person may apply for an exemption to manufacture or import a 
new chemical substance for test marketing. EPA may grant the exemption

[[Page 138]]

if the person demonstrates that the chemical substance will not present 
an unreasonable risk to injury to health or the environment as a result 
of the test marketing.
    (b) Persons applying for a test-marketing exemption should provide 
the following information:
    (1) All existing data regarding health and environmental effects of 
the chemical substance, including physical/chemical properties or, in 
the absence of such data, a discussion of toxicity based on structure-
activity relationships (SAR) and relevant data on chemical analogues.
    (2) The maximum quantity of the chemical substance which the 
applicant will manufacture or import for test marketing.
    (3) The maximum number of persons who may be provided the chemical 
substance during test marketing.
    (4) The maximum number of persons who may be exposed to the chemical 
substance as a result of test marketing, including information regarding 
duration and route of such exposures.
    (5) A description of the test-marketing activity, including its 
length and how it can be distinguished from full-scale commercial 
production and research and development.
    (c) In accordance with section 5(h)(6) of the Act, after EPA 
receives an application for exemption under this section, the Agency 
will file with the Office of the Federal Register a notice containing a 
summary of the information provided in the application, to the extent it 
has not been claimed confidential.
    (d) No later than 45 days after EPA receives an application, the 
Agency will either approve or deny the application. Thereafter, EPA will 
publish a notice in the Federal Register explaining the reasons for 
approval or denial.
    (e) In approving an application for exemption, EPA may impose any 
restrictions necessary to ensure that the substance will not present an 
unreasonable risk of injury to health and the environment as a result of 
test marketing.

[48 FR 21742, May 13, 1983, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R04>
                          Subpart C_Notice Form


<R05>
Sec. 720.40  General.

    (a) Use of the notice form; electronic submissions. (1) Each person 
who is required by subpart B of this part to submit a notice must 
complete, sign, and submit a notice containing the information in the 
form and manner specified in this paragraph. The information submitted 
and all attachments (unless the attachment appears in the open 
scientific literature) must be in English. All information submitted 
must be true and correct.
    (2) All notices must be submitted on EPA Form 7710-25. Notices, and 
any support documents related to these notices, may only be submitted in 
a manner set forth in this paragraph.
    (i) Submission via CDX. TSCA section 5 notices and any related 
support documents must be submitted electronically to EPA via CDX. Prior 
to submission to EPA via CDX, such notices must be generated and 
completed on EPA Form 7710-25 using e-PMN software.
    (ii) You can access the e-PMN software as follows:
    (A) Website. Go to EPA's TSCA New Chemicals Program website at 
http://www.epa.gov/oppt/newchems and follow the appropriate links.
    (B) Telephone. Call the EPA CDX Help Desk at 1-888-890-1995.
    (C) E-mail. HelpDesk@epacdx.net.
    (b) When to submit a notice. Each person who is required to submit a 
notice must submit the notice at least 90 calendar days before 
manufacture or import of the new chemical substance for commercial 
purposes begins.
    (c) Where to submit a notice or support documents. For submitting 
notices or support documents via CDX, use the e-PMN software.
    (d) General notice requirements. (1) Each person who submits a 
notice must provide the information described in Sec. 720.45 and 
specified on the notice form, to the extent such information is known to 
or reasonably ascertainable by the person. In accordance with Sec. 
720.50, the notice must also include any test data in the person's 
possession or control, and descriptions of other data which are known to 
or reasonably ascertainable by the person and which

[[Page 139]]

concern the health and environmental effects of the new chemical 
substance.
    (2) If information is claimed as confidential pursuant to Sec. 
720.80, a person who submits a notice to EPA in the manner set forth in 
Sec. 720.40(a)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii) must also provide EPA with a 
sanitized copy.
    (e) Agency or joint submissions--(1) A manufacturer (including 
importer) may designate an agent to assist in submitting the notice. If 
so, only the manufacturer (including importer), and not the agent, signs 
the certification on the form.
    (2) A manufacturer or importer may authorize another person, (e.g., 
a supplier or a toll manufacturer) to report some of the information 
required in the notice to EPA on its behalf. The manufacturer or 
importer should indicate in a cover letter accompanying the notice which 
information will be supplied by another person and must identify that 
other person as a joint submitter where indicated on their notice form. 
The other person supplying information (i.e., the joint submitter) may 
submit the information to EPA using either the notice form or a Letter 
of Support, except that if the joint submitter is not incorporated, 
licensed, or doing business in the United States, the joint submitter 
must submit the information to EPA in a Letter of Support only, not in a 
notice form. The joint submitter must indicate in the notice or Letter 
of Support the identity of the manufacturer or importer. Any person who 
submits a notice form or Letter of Support for a joint submission must 
sign and certify the notice form or Letter of Support.
    (3) Only the Authorized Official (AO) of a submitting company can 
certify initial notices and submit all TSCA section 5 documents.
    (i) An AO can authorize other persons to be non-certifying AOs who 
may conduct all section 5 business on behalf of the submitting company 
except for certifying and submitting initial notices to EPA via CDX.
    (ii) An AO may grant access to a support registrant to edit section 
5 documents.
    (f) New information. During the notice review period, if the 
submitter possesses, controls, or knows of new information that 
materially adds to, changes, or otherwise makes significantly more 
complete the information included in the notice, the submitter must that 
information to the address listed on the notice form within ten days of 
receiving the new information, but no later than five days before the 
end of the notice review period. The new submission must clearly 
identify the submitter and the notice to which the new information is 
related. If the new information becomes available during the last five 
days of the notice review period, the submitter must immediately inform 
its EPA contract for that notice by telephone.
    (g) Chemical substances subject to a section 4 test rule. (1) Except 
as provided in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, if (i) A person intends 
to manufacture or import a new chemical substance which is subject to 
the notification requirements of this part, and (ii) The chemical 
substance is subject to a test rule promulgated under section 4 of the 
Act before the notice is submitted, section 5(b)(1) of the Act requires 
the person to submit the test data required by the testing rule with the 
notice. The person must submit the data in the form and manner specified 
in the test rule and in accordance with Sec. 720.50. If the person does 
not submit the test data, the submission is incomplete and EPA will 
follow the procedures in Sec. 720.65.
    (2) If EPA has granted the submitter an exemption under section 4(c) 
of the Act from the requirement to conduct tests and submit data, the 
submitter may not submit a notice until EPA receives the test data.
    (3) If EPA has granted the submitter an exemption under section 4(c) 
of the Act and if another person previously has submitted the test data 
to EPA, the exempted person may either submit the test data or provide 
the following information as part of the notice:
    (i) The name, title, and address of the person who submitted the 
test data to EPA.
    (ii) The date the test data were submitted to EPA.
    (iii) A citation for the test rule.
    (iv) A description of the exemption and a reference identifying it.

[[Page 140]]

    (h) Chemical substances subject to a section 5(b)(4) rule. (1) If a 
person (i) intends to manufacture or import a new chemical substance 
which is subject to the notification requirements of this part and which 
is subject to a rule issued under section 5(b)(4) of the Act; and (ii) 
is not required by a rule issued under section 4 of the Act to submit 
test data for the substance before the submission of a notice, the 
person must submit to EPA data described in paragraph (h)(2) of this 
section at the time the notice is submitted.
    (2) Data submitted under paragraph (h)(1) of this section must be 
data which the person submitting the notice believes show that the 
manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, use and disposal of 
the substance, or any combination of such activities, will not present 
an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment.

[48 FR 21742, May 13, 1983, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 60 
FR 16309, Mar. 29, 1995; 75 FR 784, Jan. 6, 2010; 78 FR 72827, Dec. 4, 
2013; 80 FR 42746, July 20, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 720.45  Information that must be included in the notice form.

    Each person who submits a notice must include the information 
specified in the notice form to the extent it is known to or reasonably 
ascertainable by the submitter. However, no person is required to 
include information which relates solely to exposure of human or 
ecological populations outside of the United States. The notice form 
requires the following information relating to the manufacture, 
processing, distribution in commerce, use, and disposal of the new 
chemical substance:
    (a)(1) The specific chemical identity of the substance that the 
person intends to manufacture or import, which includes the following:
    (i) The currently correct Chemical Abstracts (CA) name for the 
substance, based on the Ninth Collective Index (9CI) of CA nomenclature 
rules and conventions, and consistent with listings for similar 
substances in the Inventory. For each substance having a chemical 
composition that can be represented by a specific, complete chemical 
structure diagram (a Class 1 substance), a CA Index Name must be 
provided. For each chemical substance that cannot be fully represented 
by a complete, specific chemical structure diagram (a Class 2 
substance), or if the substance is a polymer, a CA Index Name or CA 
Preferred Name must be provided (whichever is appropriate based on CA 
9CI nomenclature rules and conventions). In addition, for a Class 2 
substance, the notice must identify the immediate chemical precursors 
and reactants by specific chemical name and Chemical Abstracts Service 
Registry Number (CASRN), if the number is available. Tradenames or 
generic names of chemical precursors or reactants are not acceptable as 
substitutes for specific chemical names.
    (ii) The currently correct CASRN for the substance if a CASRN 
already exists for the substance.
    (iii) For a Class 1 substance and for any Class 2 substance for 
which a definite molecular formula is known or reasonably ascertainable, 
the correct molecular formula.
    (iv) For a Class 1 substance, a complete, correct chemical structure 
diagram; for a Class 2 substance or polymer, a correct representative or 
partial chemical structure diagram, as complete as can be known, if one 
can be reasonably ascertained.
    (2) For a polymer, the submitter must also report the following:
    (i) The specific chemical name and CASRN, if the number is 
available, of each monomer and other reactant used, at any weight 
percent, to manufacture the polymer. Tradenames or generic names of 
chemical reactants or monomers are not acceptable as substitutes for 
specific chemical names.
    (ii) The typical percent by weight of each monomer and other 
reactant in the polymer (weight of the monomer or other reactant 
expressed as a percentage of the weight of the polymeric chemical 
substance manufactured), and the maximum residual amount of each monomer 
present in the polymer.
    (iii) For monomers and other reactants used at 2 weight percent or 
less (based on the dry weight of the polymer manufactured), indicate on 
the PMN form any such monomers and other reactants that should be 
included as part of the polymer description on

[[Page 141]]

the Inventory, where the weight percent is based on either (A) the 
weight of monomer or other reactant actually charged to the reaction 
vessel, or (B) the minimum weight of monomer or other reactant required 
in theory to account for the actual weight of monomer or other reactant 
molecules or fragments chemically incorporated (chemically combined) in 
the polymeric substance manufactured.
    (iv) For a determination that 2 weight percent or less of a monomer 
or other reactant is incorporated (chemically combined) in a polymeric 
substance manufactured, as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(B) of 
this section, analytical data or appropriate theoretical calculations 
(if it can be documented that analytical measurement is not feasible or 
not necessary) to support this determination must be maintained at the 
site of manufacture or import of the polymer.
    (v) Measured or estimated values of the minimum number-average 
molecular weight of the polymer and the amount of low molecular weight 
species below 500 and below 1,000 molecular weight, with a description 
of how the measured or estimated values were obtained.
    (3) The person must use one of the following two methods to develop 
or obtain the specified chemical identity information reported under 
paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section and must identify the method 
used in the notice:
    (i) Method 1. Obtain the correct chemical identity information 
required by paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section directly from the 
Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS), specifically from the CAS Registry 
Services Inventory Expert Service, prior to submitting a notice to EPA. 
A copy of the chemical identification report obtained from CAS must be 
submitted with the notice.
    (ii) Method 2. Obtain the correct chemical identity information 
required by paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) from any source. The notice will 
be incomplete according to Sec. 720.65(c)(1)(vi) if the person uses 
Method 2 and any chemical identity information is determined to be 
incorrect by EPA.
    (4) If an importer submitting the notice cannot provide all the 
information specified in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section 
because it is claimed as confidential by the foreign supplier of the 
substance, the importer must have the foreign supplier follow the 
procedures in paragraph (a)(3) of this section and provide the correct 
chemical identity information specified in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of 
this section directly to EPA in a joint submission or as a letter of 
support to the notice, which clearly references the importer's notice 
and PMN User Fee Identification Number. The statutory review process 
will commence upon receipt of both the notice and the complete, correct 
information.
    (5) If a manufacturer cannot provide all the information specified 
in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section because the new chemical 
substance is manufactured using a reactant having a specific chemical 
identity claimed as confidential by its supplier, the manufacturer must 
submit a notice directly to EPA containing all the information known by 
the manufacturer about the chemical identity of the reported substance 
and its proprietary reactant. In addition, the manufacturer must ensure 
that the supplier of the confidential reactant submit a letter of 
support directly to EPA providing the specific chemical identity of the 
confidential reactant, including the CAS number, if available, and the 
appropriate PMN or exemption number, if applicable. The letter of 
support must reference the manufacturer's name and PMN User Fee 
Identification Number under Sec. 700.45(c)(3) of this chapter. The 
statutory review period will commence upon receipt of both the notice 
and the letter of support.
    (b) The impurities anticipated to be present in the substance by 
name, CAS Registry number, and weight percent of the total substance.
    (c) Known synonyms or trade names of the new chemical substance.
    (d) A description of the byproducts resulting from the manufacture, 
processing, use, and disposal of the new chemical substance.
    (e) The estimated maximum amount to be manufactured or imported 
during the first year of production and the estimated maximum amount to 
be manufactured or imported during any 12-

[[Page 142]]

month period during the first three years of production.
    (f) A description of intended categories of use by function and 
application, the estimated percent of production volume devoted to each 
category of use, and the percent of the new substance in the formulation 
for each commercial or consumer use.
    (g) For sites controlled by the submitter:
    (1) The identity of sites where the new substance will be 
manufactured, processed, or used.
    (2) A process description of each manufacture, processing, and use 
operation which includes a diagram of the major unit operations and 
chemical conversions, the identity and entry point of all feedstocks, 
and the points of release of the new chemical substance.
    (3) Worker exposure information, including worker activities, 
physical form of the new substance to which workers may be exposed, the 
number of workers, and the duration of activities.
    (4) Information on release of the new substance to the environment, 
including the quantity and media of release and type of control 
technology used.
    (h) For sites not controlled by the submitter, a description of each 
type of processing and use operation involving the new chemical 
substance, including identification of the estimated number of 
processing or use sites, situations in which worker exposure to and/or 
environmental release of the new chemical substance will occur, the 
number of workers exposed and the duration of exposure, and controls 
which limit worker exposure and environmental release.

[48 FR 21742, May 13, 1983, as amended at 60 FR 16310, Mar. 29, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 720.50  Submission of test data and other data concerning the
health and environmental effects of a substance.

    (a) Test data on the new chemical substance in the possession or 
control of the submitter. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of 
this section, each notice must contain all test data in the submitter's 
possession or control which are related to the effects on health or the 
environment of any manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, 
use, or disposal of the new chemical substance or any mixture or article 
containing the new chemical substance, or any combination of such 
activities. This includes test data concerning the new chemical 
substance in a pure, technical grade, or formulated form.
    (2) A full report or standard literature citation must be submitted 
for the following types of test data:
    (i) Health effects data.
    (ii) Ecological effects data.
    (iii) Physical and chemical properties data.
    (iv) Environmental fate characteristics.
    (v) Monitoring data and other test data related to human exposure to 
or environmental release of the chemical substance.
    (3)(i) If the data do not appear in the open scientific literature, 
the submitter must provide a full report. A full report includes the 
experimental methods and materials, results, discussion and data 
analysis, conclusions, references, and the name and address of the 
laboratory that developed the data.
    (ii) If the data appear in the open scientific literature, the 
submitter need only provide a standard literature citation. A standard 
literature citation includes author, title, periodical name, date of 
publication, volume, and page numbers.
    (4)(i) If a study, report, or test is incomplete when a person 
submits a notice, the submitter must identify the nature and purpose of 
the study; name and address of the laboratory developing the data; 
progress to date; types of data collected; significant preliminary 
results; and anticipated completion date.
    (ii) If a test or experiment is completed before the notice review 
period ends, the person must submit the study, report, or test to the 
address listed on the notice form, as specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) 
of this section, within ten days of receiving it, but no later than five 
days before the end of the review period. If the test or experiment is 
completed during the last five days of the review period, the submitter 
must immediately inform its EPA contact for that notice by telephone.

[[Page 143]]

    (5) For test data in the submitter's possession or control which are 
not listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a person is not required 
to submit a complete report. The person must submit a summary of the 
data. If EPA so requests, the person must submit a full report within 
ten days of the request, but no later than five days before the end of 
the review period.
    (6) All test data described by paragraph (a) are subject to these 
requirements, regardless of their age, quality, or results.
    (b) Other data concerning the health and environmental effects of 
the new chemical substance that are known to or reasonably ascertainable 
by the submitter. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this 
section, any person who submits a notice must describe the following 
data, including any data from a health and safety study, if the data are 
related to the effects on health or the environment of any manufacture, 
processing, distribution in commerce, use, or disposal of the new 
chemical substance, of any mixture or article containing the new 
chemical substance, or of any combination of such activities:
    (i) Any data, other than test data, in the submitter's possession or 
control.
    (ii) Any data, including test data, which are not in the submitter's 
possession or control, but which are known to or reasonably 
ascertainable by the submitter. For the purposes of this section, data 
are known to or reasonably ascertainable by the submitter if the data 
are known to any of its employees or other agents who are associated 
with the research and development, test marketing, or commercial 
marketing of the substance.
    (2) Data that must be described include data concerning the new 
chemical substance in a pure, technical grade, or formulated form.
    (3) The description of data reported under this paragraph must 
include:
    (i) If the data appear in the open scientific literature, a standard 
literature citation, which includes the author, title, periodical name, 
date of publication, volume, and pages.
    (ii) If the data are not contained in the open scientific 
literature, a description of the type of data and summary of the 
results, if available, and the names and addresses of persons the 
submitter believes may have possession or control of the data.
    (4) All data described by this paragraph are subject to these 
requirements, regardless of their age, quality, or results; and 
regardless of whether they are complete at the time the notice is 
submitted.
    (c) [Reserved]
    (d) Data that need not be submitted--(1) Data previously submitted 
to EPA. (i) A person need not submit any data previously submitted to 
EPA with no claims of confidentiality if the notice includes the office 
or person to whom the data were submitted, the date of submission, and, 
if appropriate, a standard literature citation as specified in paragraph 
(a)(3)(ii) of this section.
    (ii) For data previously submitted to EPA with a claim of 
confidentiality, the person must resubmit the data with the notice and 
any claim of confidentiality, under Sec. 720.80.
    (2) Efficacy data. This part does not require submission of any data 
related solely to product efficacy. This does not exempt a person from 
submitting any of the data specified in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of 
this section.
    (3) Non-U.S. exposure data. This part does not require submission of 
any data which relates only to exposure of humans or the environment 
outside the United States. This does not exclude nonexposure data such 
as data on health effects (including epidemiological studies), 
ecological effects, physical and chemical properties, or environmental 
fate characteristics.

[48 FR 21742, May 13, 1983, as amended at 51 FR 15102, Apr. 22, 1986]


<R05>
Sec. 720.57  Imports.

    (a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the provisions of 
this subpart C apply to each person who submits a notice for a new 
chemcial substance which he or she intends to import for a commercial 
purpose. In addition, each importer must comply with this section.
    (b) EPA will hold the principal importer, or the importer that EPA 
determines must submit the notice when there is no principal importer 
under Sec. 720.22(b)(2), liable for complying with

[[Page 144]]

this part, for completing the notice form and for the completeness and 
truthfulness of all information which it submits.


<R04>
                    Subpart D_Disposition of Notices


<R05>
Sec. 720.60  General.

    This subpart establishes procedures that EPA will follow in 
reviewing notices.


<R05>
Sec. 720.62  Notice that notification is not required.

    When EPA receives a notice, EPA will review it to determine whether 
the chemical substance is subject to the requirements of this part. If 
EPA determines that the chemical substance is not subject to these 
requirements, EPA will notify the submitter that section 5 of the Act 
does not prevent the manufacture or import of the substance and that the 
submission is not a notice under this part.

[48 FR 21742, May 13, 1983, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 720.65  Acknowledgement of receipt of a notice; errors in the 
notice; incomplete submissions; and false and misleading statements.

    (a) Notification to the submitter. EPA will acknowledge receipt of 
each notice by sending a letter via CDX or U.S. mail to the submitter 
that identifies the premanufacture notice number assigned to the new 
chemical substance and date on which the review period begins. The 
review period will begin on the date the notice is received by the 
Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics Document Control Officer. The 
acknowledgment does not constitute a finding by EPA that the notice, as 
submitted, is in compliance with this part.
    (b) Errors in the notice. (1) Within 30 days of receipt of the 
notice, EPA may request that the submitter remedy errors in the notice. 
The following are examples of such errors:
    (i) Failure to date the notice form.
    (ii) Typographical errors that cause data to be misleading or 
answers to any questions to be unclear.
    (iii) Contradictory information.
    (iv) Ambiguous statements or information.
    (2) In the request to correct the notice, EPA will explain the 
action which the submitter must take to correct the notice.
    (3) If the submitter fails to correct the notice within 15 days of 
receipt of the request, EPA may extend the notice period under section 
(5)(c) of the Act, in accordance with Sec. 720.75(c).
    (c) Incomplete submissions. (1) A submission is not complete, and 
the notification period does not begin, if:
    (i) The wrong person submits the notice form.
    (ii) The submitter does not sign the notice form.
    (iii) Some or all of the information in the notice or the 
attachments are not in English, except for published scientific 
literature.
    (iv) The submitter does not submit the notice in the manner set 
forth in Sec. 720.40(a)(2).
    (v) The submitter does not provide information that is required by 
section 5(d)(1) (B) and (C) of the Act and Sec. 720.50.
    (vi) The submitter does not provide information required on the 
notice form and by Sec. 720.45 or indicate that it is not known to or 
reasonably ascertainable by the submitter.
    (vii) The submitter does not submit a second copy of the submission 
with all confidential information deleted for the public file, as 
required by Sec. 720.80(b)(2).
    (viii) The submitter does not include any information required by 
section 5(b)(1) of the Act and pursuant to a rule promulgated under 
section 4 of the Act, as required by Sec. 720.40(g).
    (ix) The submitter does not submit data which the submitter believes 
show that the chemical substance will not present an unreasonable risk 
of injury to health or the environment, if EPA has listed the chemical 
substance under section 5(b)(4) of the Act, as required in Sec. 
720.40(h).
    (x) The submitter does not include an identifying number and a 
payment identity number as required by 40 CFR 700.45(e)(3).
    (2)(i) If EPA receives an incomplete submission, the Director, or 
his or her delegate, will notify the submitter

[[Page 145]]

within 30 days of receipt that the submission is incomplete and that the 
notice review period will not begin until EPA receives a complete 
notice.
    (ii) If EPA obtains additional information during the notice review 
period that indicates the original submission was incomplete, the 
Director, or his or her delegate, may declare the submission incomplete 
within 30 days after EPA obtains the additional information and so 
notify the submitter.
    (3) The notification that a submission is incomplete under paragraph 
(c)(2) (i) or (ii) of this section will include:
    (i) A statement of the basis of EPA's determination that the 
submission is incomplete.
    (ii) The requirements for correcting the incomplete submission.
    (iii) Information on procedures under paragraph (c)(4) of this 
section for filing objections to the determination or requesting 
modification of the requirements for completing the submission.
    (4) Within ten days after receipt of notification by EPA that a 
submission is incomplete, the submitter may file written objections 
requesting that EPA accept the submission as a complete notice or modify 
the requirements necessary to complete the submission.
    (5)(i) EPA will consider the objections filed by the submitter. The 
Director, or his or her delegate, will determine whether the submission 
was complete or incomplete, or whether to modify the requirements for 
completing the submission. EPA will notify the submitter in writing of 
EPA's response within ten days of receiving the objections.
    (ii) If the Director, or his or her delegate, determines, in 
response to the objection, that the submission was complete, the notice 
review period will be deemed suspended on the date EPA declared the 
notice incomplete, and will resume on the date that the notice is 
declared complete. The submitter need not correct the notice as EPA 
originally requested. If EPA can complete its review within 90 days from 
the date of the original submission, the Director, or his or her 
delegate, may inform the submitter that the running of the review period 
will resume on the date EPA originally declared it incomplete.
    (iii) If the Director, or his or her delegate, modifies the 
requirements for completing the submission or concurs with EPA's 
original determination, the notice review period will begin when EPA 
receives a complete notice.
    (d) Materially false or misleading statements. If EPA discovers at 
any time that person submitted materially false or misleading statements 
in the notice, EPA may find that the notice was incomplete from the date 
it was submitted, and take any other appropriate action.

[48 FR 21742, May 13, 1983, as amended at 75 FR 785, Jan. 6, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 720.70  Notice in the Federal Register.

    (a) Filing of Federal Register notice. In accordance with section 
5(d)(2) of the Act, after EPA receives a notice, EPA will file with the 
Office of the Federal Register a notice including the information 
specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
    (b) Contents of notice. (1) In the public interest, the specific 
chemical identity listed in the notice will be published in the Federal 
Register unless the submitter has claimed chemical identity 
confidential. If the submitter claims confidentiality, a generic name 
will be published in accordance with Sec. 720.85(a)(3).
    (2) The categories of use of the new chemical substance will be 
published as reported in the notice unless this information is claimed 
confidential. If confidentiality is claimed, the generic information 
which is submitted under Sec. 720.87(b) will be published.
    (3) A list of data submitted in accordance with Sec. 720.50(a) will 
be published. In addition, for test data submitted in accordance with 
Sec. 720.40(g), a summary of the data will be published.
    (4) The submitter's identity will be published, unless the submitter 
has claimed it confidential.


<R05>
Sec. 720.75  Notice review period.

    (a) Length of notice review period. The notice review period 
specified in section 5(a) of the Act runs for 90 days from the date the 
Document Control Officer for the Office of Pollution Prevention and 
Toxics receives a complete notice, or the date EPA determines the

[[Page 146]]

notice is complete under Sec. 720.65(c), unless the Agency extends the 
period under section 5(c) of TSCA and paragraph (c) of this section.
    (b) Suspension of the running of the notice review period. (1) A 
submitter may voluntarily suspend the running of the notice review 
period if the Director or his or her delegate agrees. If the Director 
does not agree, the review period will continue to run, and EPA will 
notify the submitter. A submitter may request a suspension at any time 
during the notice review period. The suspension must be for a specified 
period of time.
    (2)(i) Oral requests. A request for a suspension of 15 days or less 
may be made orally, including by telephone, to the submitter's EPA 
contact for that notice. Any request for a suspension exceeding 15 days 
must be submitted in the manner set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of 
this section. The running of the notice review period will be suspended 
upon approval of the oral request by the Director or her or his 
delegate.
    (ii) Written requests. Requests for suspensions exceeding 15 days 
must be submitted electronically to EPA via CDX using e-PMN software. 
Requests for suspensions of 15 days or less may also be submitted 
electronically to EPA via CDX using e-PMN software. See Sec. 
720.40(a)(2)(ii) for information on how to access the e-PMN software. 
The running of the notice review period will be suspended upon approval 
of the written request by the Director or her or his delegate.
    (c) Extension of notice review period. (1) At any time during the 
notice review period, EPA may determine that good cause exists to extend 
the notice review period specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
    (2) If EPA makes such a determination, EPA will:
    (i) Notify the submitter that EPA is extending the notice review 
period for a specified length of time, and state the reasons for the 
extension.
    (ii) Issue a notice for publication in the Federal Register which 
states that EPA is extending the notice review period and gives the 
reasons for the extension.
    (3) The initial extension may be for a period of up to 90 days. If 
the initial extension is for less than 90 days, EPA may make additional 
extensions. However, the total period of extensions may not exceed 90 
days for any notice.
    (4) The following are examples of situations in which EPA may find 
that good cause exists for extending the notice review period:
    (i) EPA has reviewed the notice and determined that there is a 
significant possibility that the chemical substance will be regulated 
under section 5(e) or section 5(f) of the Act, but EPA is unable to 
initiate regulatory action within the initial 90-day period.
    (ii) EPA has reviewed the submission and is seeking additional 
information.
    (iii) EPA has received significant additional information during the 
notice review period.
    (iv) The submitter has failed to correct a notice after receiving 
EPA's request under Sec. 720.65(b).
    (d) Notice of expiration of notice review period. EPA will notify 
the submitter that the notice review period has expired or that EPA has 
completed its review of the notice. Expiration of the review period does 
not constitute EPA approval or certification of the new chemical 
substance, and does not mean that EPA may not take regulatory action 
against the substance in the future. After expiration of the statutory 
notice review period, in the absence of regulatory action by EPA under 
section 5(e), 5(f), or 6(a) of the Act, the submitter may manufacture or 
import the chemical substance even if the submitter has not received 
notice of expiration.
    (e) Withdrawal of a notice by the submitter. (1)(i) A submitter may 
withdraw a notice during the notice review period by submitting a 
statement of withdrawal in a manner set forth in this paragraph. The 
withdrawal is effective upon receipt by EPA of the CDX submission.
    (ii) Submission of withdrawal notices. EPA will accept statements of 
withdrawal only if submitted in accordance with this paragraph. 
Statements of withdrawal must be generated, completed, and submitted to 
EPA (via CDX) using e-PMN software. See

[[Page 147]]

Sec. 720.40(a)(2)(ii) for information on how to obtain e-PMN software.
    (2) If a manufacturer (including importer) which withdrew a notice 
later resubmits a notice for the same chemical substance, a new notice 
review period begins.

[48 FR 21742, May 13, 1983, as amended at 53 FR 12523, Apr. 15, 1988; 58 
FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 60 FR 34464, July 3, 1995; 71 FR 33641, June 
12, 2006; 75 FR 786, Jan. 6, 2010; 78 FR 72827, Dec. 4, 2013; 80 FR 
42746, July 20, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 720.78  Recordkeeping.

    (a) Any person who submits a notice under this part must retain 
documentation of information in the notice, including (1) other data, as 
defined in Sec. 720.50(b), in the submitter's possession or control; 
and (2) records of production volume for the first three years of 
production or import, the date of commencement of manufacture or import, 
and documentation of this information. This information must be retained 
for five years from the date of commencement of manufacture of import.
    (b)(1) Persons who manufacture or import a chemical substance under 
Sec. 720.36 must retain the following records:
    (i) Copies of, or citations to, information reviewed and evaluated 
under Sec. 720.36(b)(1) to determine the need to make any notification 
of risk.
    (ii) Documentation of the nature and method of notification under 
Sec. 720.36(c)(1) including copies of any labels or written notices 
used.
    (iii) Documentation of prudent laboratory practices used instead of 
notification and evaluation under Sec. 720.36(b)(2).
    (iv) The names and addresses of any persons other than the 
manfacturer or importer to whom the substance is distributed, the 
identity of the substance to the extent known, the amount distributed, 
and copies of the notifications required under Sec. 720.36(c)(2). These 
records are not required when substances are distributed as impurities 
or incorporated into an article, in accordance with paragraph (d) of 
this section.
    (2) A person who manufactures or imports a chemical substance under 
Sec. 720.36 and who manufactures or imports the substance in quantities 
greater than 100 kilograms per year must retain records of the identity 
of the substance to the extent known, the production volume of the 
substance, and the person's disposition of the substance. The person is 
not required to maintain records of the disposition of products 
containing the substance as an impurity or of articles incorporating the 
substances.
    (3) Records under this paragraph must be retained for 5 years after 
they are developed.
    (c) Any person who obtains a test-marketing exemption under this 
part must retain documentation of information in the application and 
documentation of compliance with any restrictions imposed by EPA when it 
granted the application. This information must be retained for five 
years from the final date of manufacture or import under the exemption.

[48 FR 21742, May 13, 1983; 48 FR 33872, July 26, 1983, as amended at 51 
FR 15102, Apr. 22, 1986; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R04>
       Subpart E_Confidentiality and Public Access to Information


<R05>
Sec. 720.80  General provisions.

    (a) A person may assert a claim of confidentiality for any 
information which he or she submits to EPA under this part.
    (b) Any claim of confidentiality must accompany the information when 
it is submitted to EPA.
    (1)(i) For information submitted on the notice form, the claim(s) 
must be asserted on the form in the manner prescribed on the notice 
form.
    (ii) When a person submits information in an attachment, the 
claim(s) must be asserted in the attachment as described on the notice 
form.
    (2) If any information is claimed as confidential, the person must 
submit, in addition to the copies specified by Sec. 720.40, a sanitized 
copy of the notice form (or electronic submission) and any attachments.
    (i) The notice and attachments must be complete. The submitter must 
designate that information which is claimed as confidential in the 
manner prescribed on the notice form, via EPA's e-PMN software. See 
Sec. 720.40(a)(2)(iv) for information on how to obtain e-PMN software.

[[Page 148]]

    (ii) The sanitized copy must be complete except that all information 
claimed as confidential in the original must be deleted. EPA will place 
this sanitized copy in the public file.
    (iii) If the person does not provide the sanitized copy, or 
information in a health and safety study (except information claimed as 
confidential in accordance with Sec. 720.90), the submission will be 
deemed incomplete and the notice review period will not begin until EPA 
receives the sanitized copy or the health and safety study information 
is included, in accordance with Sec. 720.65(c)(1)(vii).
    (c) EPA will disclose information that is subject to a claim of 
confidentiality asserted under this section only to the extent permitted 
by the Act, this subpart, and part 2 of this title.
    (d) If a notice submitter does not assert a claim of confidentiality 
for information at the time it is submitted to EPA, EPA may make the 
information public and place it in the public file without further 
notice to the submitter.

[48 FR 21742, May 13, 1983, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 60 
FR 16311, Mar. 29, 1995; 75 FR 786, Jan. 6, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 720.85  Chemical identity.

    (a) Claims applicable to the period prior to commencement of 
manufacture or import. (1)(i) A person who submits information to EPA 
under this part may assert a claim of confidentiality for the chemical 
identity of the new chemical substance. This claim will apply only to 
the period prior to the commencement of manufacture or import for 
commercial purposes. A submitter may assert this claim only if the 
submitter believes that public disclosure prior to commencement of 
manufacture or import of the fact that anyone intends to manufacture or 
import the specific chemical substance for commercial purposes would 
reveal confidential business information.
    (ii) If the notice includes a health and safety study concerning the 
new chemical substance and if the claim for confidentiality with respect 
to the chemical identity is denied in accordance with Sec. 720.90(c), 
EPA will deny a claim asserted under this paragraph.
    (2) Any person who asserts a claim of confidentiality for chemical 
identity under this paragraph must provide one of the following items at 
the time the notice is submitted:
    (i) The generic name which was accepted by EPA in the prenotice 
consultation conducted under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
    (ii) One generic name that is only as generic as necessary to 
protect the confidential chemical identity of the particular chemical 
substance. The name should reveal the specific chemical identity to the 
maximum extent possible. The generic name will be subject to EPA review 
and approval at the time a notice of commencement is submitted.
    (3)(i) Any person who intends to assert a claim of confidentiality 
for the chemical identity of a new chemical substance may seek a 
determination by EPA of an appropriate generic name for the substance 
before submitting a notice. For this purpose, the person should submit 
to EPA:
    (A) The chemical identity of the substance.
    (B) A proposed generic name(s) which in only as generic as necessary 
to protect the confidential chemical identity of the new chemical 
substance. The name(s) should reveal the chemical identity of the 
substance to the maximum extent possible.
    (ii) Within 30 days, EPA will inform the submitter either that one 
of the proposed generic names is adequate or that none is adequate and 
further consultation is necessary.
    (4) If a submitter claims chemical identity to be confidential under 
this paragraph, and if the submitter complies with paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section, EPA will issue for publication in the Federal Register 
notice described in Sec. 720.70 the generic name proposed by the 
submitter or one agreed upon by EPA and the submitter.
    (b) Claims applicable to the period after commencement of 
manufacture or import. (1) Any claim of confidentiality under paragraph 
(a) of this section is applicable only until the substance is 
manufactured or imported for commercial purposes and becomes eligible 
for inclusion on the Inventory. To maintain the confidential status of 
the chemical

[[Page 149]]

identity when the substance is added to the Inventory, a submitter must 
reassert the confidentiality claim and substantiate the claim in the 
notice of commencement of manufacture required under Sec. 720.102. A 
submitter may not claim the chemical indentity confidential for the 
period after commencement of manufacture or import unless the submitter 
claimed the chemical identity confidential for the period prior to 
commencement of manufacture or import under paragraph (a) of this 
section.
    (2)(i) A person who believes that public disclosure of the fact that 
anyone manfactures or imports the new chemical substance for commercial 
purposes would reveal confidential business information may assert a 
claim of confidentiality under this paragraph.
    (ii) If the notice includes a health and safety study concerning the 
new chemical substance, and if the claim for confidentiality with 
respect to the chemical identity is denied in accordance with Sec. 
720.90(c), EPA will deny a claim asserted under this paragraph.
    (3) Any person who asserts a confidentiality claim for chemical 
identity must:
    (i) Comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section 
regarding submission of a generic name.
    (ii) Agree that EPA may disclose to a person with a bona fide intent 
to manufacture or import the chemical substance the fact that the 
particular chemical substance is included on the confidential Inventory 
for purposes of notification under section 5(a)(1)(A) of the Act.
    (iii) Have available for the particular chemical substance, and 
agree to furnish to EPA upon request:
    (A) An elemental analysis.
    (B) Either an X-ray diffraction pattern (for inorganic substances), 
a mass spectrum (for most other substances), or an infrared spectrum of 
the particular chemical substance, or if such data do not resolve 
uncertainties with respect to the identity of the chemical substance, 
additional or alternative spectra or other data to identify the chemical 
substance.
    (iv) Provide a detailed written substantiation of the claim, by 
answering the following questions:
    (A) What harmful effects to your competitive position, if any, do 
you think would result if EPA publishes on the Inventory the identity of 
the chemical substance? How could a competitor use such information 
given the fact that the identity of the substance otherwise would appear 
on the Inventory of chemical substances with no link between the 
substance and your company or industry? How substantial would the 
harmful effects of disclosure be? What is the casual relationship 
between the disclosure and the harmful effects?
    (B) For what period of time should confidential treatment be given? 
Until a specific date, the occurrence of a specific event, or 
permanently? Why?
    (C) Has the chemical substance been patented? If so, have you 
granted licenses to others with respect to the patent as it applies to 
the chemical substance? If the chemical substance has been patented and 
therefore disclosed through the patent, why should it be treated as 
confidential for purposes of the Inventory?
    (D) Has the identity of the chemical substance been kept 
confidential to the extent that your competitors do not know it is being 
manufactured on imported for a commercial purpose by anyone?
    (E) Is the fact that someone is manufacturing or importing this 
chemical substance for commercial purposes available to the public, 
e.g., in technical journals or other publications; in libraries; or in 
State, local, or Federal agency public files?
    (F) What measures have you taken to prevent undesired disclosure of 
the fact that you are manufacturing or importing this substance for a 
commercial purpose?
    (G) To what extent has the fact that you are manufacturing or 
importing this chemical substance for a commercial purpose been 
disclosed to others? What precautions have you taken in regard to these 
disclosures? Has this information been disclosed to the public or to 
competitors?
    (H) In what form does this particular chemical substance leave the 
site of manufacture, e.g., as part of a product; in an effluent or 
emission stream? If so, what measures have you taken to guard against 
discovery of its identity?

[[Page 150]]

    (I) If the chemical substance leaves the site of manufacture in a 
product that is available to either the public or your competitors, can 
they identify the substance by analyzing the product?
    (J) For what purpose do you manufacture or import the substance?
    (K) Has EPA, another Federal agency, or any Federal court made any 
pertinent confidentiality determinations regarding this chemical 
substance? If so, copies of such determinations must be included in the 
substantiation.
    (L) If the notice includes a health and safety study concerning the 
new chemical substance, the submitter must also answer the questions in 
Sec. 720.90(b)(2).
    (4) If the submitter does not meet the requirements of this 
paragraph, EPA will deny the claim of confidentiality.
    (5)(i) EPA will publish a generic name on the public Inventory if:
    (A) The submitter asserts a claim of confidentiality in accordance 
with this paragraph.
    (B) No claim for confidentiality of the specific chemical identity 
as part of a health and safety study has been denied in accordance with 
part 2 of this title or Sec. 720.90.
    (ii) Publication of a generic name on the public Inventory does not 
create a category for purposes of the Inventory. Any person who has a 
bona fide intent to manufacture or import a chemical substance which is 
described by a generic name on the public Inventory may submit an 
inquiry to EPA under Sec. 720.25(b) to determine whether the particular 
chemical substance is included on the confidential Inventory.
    (iii) Upon receipt of a request described in Sec. 720.25(b), EPA 
may require the submitter which originally asserted confidentiality for 
a chemical substance to submit to EPA the information listed in 
paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section.
    (iv) Failure to submit any of the information required under 
paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section within ten days of a request by 
EPA under this paragraph is a waiver of the original submitter's 
confidentiality claim. In this event, EPA may place the specific 
chemical identity on the public Inventory without further notice to the 
original submitter.
    (6) If a submitter asserts a claim of confidentiality under this 
paragraph, EPA will examine the generic chemical name proposed by the 
submitter.
    (i) If EPA determines that the generic name proposed by the 
submitter is only as generic as necessary to protect the confidential 
identity of the particular chemical substance, EPA will place that 
generic name on the public Inventory.
    (ii) If EPA determines that the generic name proposed by the 
submitter is more generic than necessary to protect the confidential 
identity, EPA will propose in writing, for review by the submitter, an 
alternative generic name that will reveal the chemical identity of the 
chemical substance to the maximum extent possible.
    (iii) If the generic name proposed by EPA is acceptable to the 
submitter, EPA will place that generic name on the public Inventory.
    (iv) If the generic name proposed by EPA is not acceptable to the 
submitter, the submitter must explain in detail why disclosure of that 
generic name would reveal confidential business information and propose 
another generic name which is only as generic as necessary to protect 
the confidential identity. If EPA does not receive a response from the 
submitter within 30 days after the submitter receives the proposed name, 
EPA will place EPA's chosen generic name on the public Inventory. If the 
submitter does provide the information requested, EPA will review the 
response. If the submitter's proposed generic name is acceptable, EPA 
will publish that generic name on the public Inventory. If the 
submitter's proposed generic name is not acceptable, EPA will notify the 
submitter of EPA's choice of a generic name. Thirty days after this 
notification, EPA will place the chosen generic name on the public 
Inventory.


<R05>
Sec. 720.87  Categories or proposed categories of uses of a new
chemical substance.

    (a) A person who submits information to EPA under this part on the 
categories or proposed categories of use of a new chemical substance may 
assert a claim of confidentiality for this information.

[[Page 151]]

    (b) A submitter that asserts such a claim must:
    (1) Report the categories or proposed categories of use of the 
chemical substance.
    (2) Provide, in nonconfidential form, a description of the uses that 
is only as generic as necessary to protect the confidential business 
information. The generic use description will be included in the Federal 
Register notice described in Sec. 720.70.
    (c) The person must submit the information required by paragraph (b) 
of this section in the manner specified in the notice form.


<R05>
Sec. 720.90  Data from health and safety studies.

    (a) Information other than specific chemical identity. Except as 
provided in paragraph (b) of this section, EPA will deny any claim of 
confidentiality with respect to information included in a health and 
safety study, unless the information would disclose confidential 
business information concerning:
    (1) Processes used in the manufacture or processing of a chemical 
substance or mixture.
    (2) In the case of a mixture, the portion of the mixture comprised 
by any of the chemical substances in the mixture.
    (3) Information which is not in any way related to the effects of a 
substance on human health or the environment, such as the name of the 
submitting company, cost or other financial data, product development or 
marketing plans, and advertising plans, for which the person submits a 
claim of confidentiality in accordance with Sec. 720.80.
    (b) Specific chemical identity--(1) Claims applicable to period 
prior to commencement of manufacture. A claim of confidentiality for the 
period prior to commencement of manufacture or import for the chemical 
identity of a chemical substance for which a health and safety study was 
submitted must be asserted in conjunction with a claim asserted under 
Sec. 720.85(a).
    (2) Claims applicable to period after commencement of manufacture or 
import for commercial purposes. To maintain the confidential status of 
the chemical identity of a chemical substance for which a health and 
safety study was submitted after commencement of manufacture or import, 
the claim must be reasserted and substantiated in conjunction with a 
claim under Sec. 720.85(b). In addition to the questions set forth in 
Sec. 720.85(b)(3)(iv) of this part, the submitter must answer the 
following questions:
    (i) Would disclosure of the chemical identity disclose processes 
used in the manufacture or processing of a chemical substance or 
mixture? Describe how this would occur. In responding to the question in 
Sec. 720.85(b)(3)(iv)(A), explain what harmful competitive effects 
would occur from disclosure of this process information.
    (ii) Would disclosure of the chemical identity disclose the portion 
of a mixture comprised by any of the substances in the mixture? Describe 
how this would occur. In responding to the question in Sec. 
720.85(b)(3)(iv)(A), explain what harmful competitive effects would 
occur from disclosure of this information.
    (iii) Do you assert that disclosure of the chemical identity is not 
necessary to interpret any of the health and safety studies you have 
submitted? If so, explain how a less specific identity would be 
sufficient to interpret the studies.
    (c) Denial of confidentiality claim. EPA will deny a claim of 
confidentiality for chemical identity under paragraph (b) of this 
section, unless:
    (1) The information would disclose processes used in the manufacture 
or processing of a chemical substance or mixture.
    (2) In the case of a mixture, the information would disclose the 
portion of the mixture comprised by any of the substances in the 
mixture.
    (3) The specific chemical identity is not necessary to interpret a 
health and safety study.
    (d) Use of generic names. When EPA discloses a health and safety 
study containing a specific chemical identity, which the submitter has 
claimed confidential, and if the Agency has not denied the claim under 
paragraph (c) of this section, EPA will identify the

[[Page 152]]

chemical substance by the generic name selected under Sec. 720.85.

[48 FR 21742, May 13, 1983, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 720.95  Public file.

    All information submitted with a notice, including any health and 
safety study and other supporting documentation, will become part of the 
public file for that notice, unless such materials are claimed 
confidential. In addition, EPA may add materials to the public file, 
subject to subpart E of this part. Publically available docket materials 
are available at the addresses in Sec. 700.17(b)(1) and (2) of this 
chapter.

[48 FR 21742, May 13, 1983, as amended at 53 FR 12523, Apr. 15, 1988; 60 
FR 16311, Mar. 29, 1995; 60 FR 34464, July 3, 1995; 77 FR 46292, Aug. 3, 
2012]


<R04>
             Subpart F_Commencement of Manufacture or Import


<R05>
Sec. 720.102  Notice of commencement of manufacture or import.

    (a) Applicability. Any person who commences the manufacture or 
import of a new chemical substance for a nonexempt commercial purpose 
for which that person previously submitted a section 5(a) notice under 
this part must submit a notice of commencement of manufacture or import.
    (b) When to report. (1) If manufacture or import for commercial 
purposes begins on or after the effective date of this rule, the 
submitter must submit the notice to EPA on, or no later than 30 calendar 
days, after the first day of such manufacture or import.
    (2) If manufacture or import for commercial purposes began or will 
begin before the effective date of this rule, the submitter must submit 
the notice by the effective date of this rule.
    (c) Information to be reported on form. (1) The notice must be 
submitted on EPA Form 7710-56, which is available as part of EPA's e-PMN 
software. See Sec. 720.40(a)(2)(iv) for information on how to obtain e-
PMN software. The form must be signed and dated by an Authorized 
Official (AO). All information specified on the form must be provided. 
The notice must contain the following information:
    (i) The specific chemical identity of the PMN substance.
    (ii) A generic chemical name (if the chemical identity is claimed as 
confidential by the submitter).
    (iii) The premanufacture notice (PMN) number assigned by EPA.
    (iv) The date of commencement for the submitter's manufacture or 
import for a non-exempt commercial purpose (indicating whether the 
substance was initially manufactured in the United States or imported). 
The date of commencement is the date of completion of non-exempt 
manufacture of the first amount (batch, drum, etc.) of new chemical 
substance identified in the submitter's PMN. For importers, the date of 
commencement is the date the new chemical substance clears United States 
customs.
    (v) The name and address of the submitter.
    (vi) The name of the authorized official.
    (vii) The name and telephone number of a technical contact in the 
United States.
    (viii) The address of the site where commencement of manufacture 
occurred.
    (ix) Clear indications of whether the chemical identity, submitter 
identity, and/or other information are claimed as confidential by the 
submitter.
    (2) If the submitter claims the chemical identity confidential, and 
wants the identity to be listed on the confidential portion of the 
Inventory, the claim must be reasserted and substantiated in accordance 
with Sec. 720.85(b). Otherwise, EPA will list the specific chemical 
identity on the public Inventory. Submitters who did not claim the 
chemical identity, submitter identity, or other information to be 
confidential in the PMN cannot claim this information as confidential in 
the notice of commencement.
    (d)(1) Where to submit. All notices of commencement must be 
submitted to EPA on EPA Form 7710-56. Notices may only be submitted in a 
manner set forth in this paragraph.

[[Page 153]]

    (2) Submission of notice of commencement. EPA will accept notices of 
commencement only if submitted in accordance with this paragraph. All 
notices of commencement must be submitted electronically to EPA via CDX. 
Prior to submission to EPA via CDX, such notices of commencement must be 
generated and completed using e-PMN software. See Sec. 720.40(a)(2)(ii) 
for information on how to obtain e-PMN software.

[48 FR 21742, May 13, 1983, as amended at 48 FR 41140, Sept. 13, 1983; 
51 FR 15103, Apr. 22, 1986; 53 FR 12523, Apr. 15, 1988; 60 FR 16311, 
Mar. 29, 1995; 60 FR 34464, July 3, 1995; 65 FR 39304, June 26, 2000; 71 
FR 33641, June 12, 2006; 75 FR 786, Jan. 6, 2010; 78 FR 72827, Dec. 4, 
2013]


<R04>
                  Subpart G_Compliance and Inspections


<R05>
Sec. 720.120  Compliance.

    (a) Failure to comply with any provision of this part is a violation 
of section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C 2614).
    (b) A person who manufactures or imports a new chemical substance 
before a notice is submitted and the notice review period expires is in 
violation of section 15 of the Act even if that person was not requied 
to submit the notice under Sec. 720.22.
    (c) Using for commercial purposes a chemical substance or mixture 
which a person knew or had reason to know was manufactured, processed, 
or distributed in commerce in violation of section 5 of this rule is a 
violation of section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614).
    (d) Failure or refusal to establish and maintain records or to 
permit access to or copying of records, as required by the Act, is a 
violation of section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614).
    (e) Failure or refusal to permit entry or inspection as required by 
section 11 is a violation of section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614).
    (f) Violators may be subject to the civil and criminal penalties in 
section 16 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2615) for each violation. Persons who 
submit materially misleading or false information in connection with the 
requirements of any provision of this rule may be subject to penalties 
calculated as if they never filed their notices.
    (g) EPA may seek to enjoin the manufacture or processing of a 
chemical substance in violation of this rule or act to seize any 
chemical substance manufactured or processed in violation of this rule 
or take other actions under the authority of section 7 of this Act (15 
U.S.C. 2606) or section 17 or this Act (15 U.S.C. 2616).


<R05>
Sec. 720.122  Inspections.

    EPA will conduct inspections under section 11 of the Act to assure 
compliance with section 5 of the Act and this rule, to verify that 
information submitted to EPA under this rule is true and correct, and to 
audit data submitted to EPA under this rule.


<R03>
PART 721_SIGNIFICANT NEW USES OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES--Table of Contents



                      Subpart A_General Provisions

Sec.
721.1 Scope and applicability.
721.3 Definitions.
721.5 Persons who must report.
721.11 Applicability determination when the specific chemical identity 
          is confidential.
721.20 Exports and imports.
721.25 Notice requirements and procedures.
721.30 EPA approval of alternative control measures.
721.35 Compliance and enforcement.
721.40 Recordkeeping.
721.45 Exemptions.
721.47 Conditions for research and development exemption.

                 Subpart B_Certain Significant New Uses

721.50 Applicability.
721.63 Protection in the workplace.
721.72 Hazard communication program.
721.80 Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.
721.85 Disposal.
721.90 Release to water.
721.91 Computation of estimated surface water concentrations: 
          Instructions.

                  Subpart C_Recordkeeping Requirements

721.100 Applicability.

[[Page 154]]

721.125 Recordkeeping requirements.

 Subpart D_Expedited Process for Issuing Significant New Use Rules for 
 Selected Chemical Substances and Limitation or Revocation of Selected 
                        Significant New Use Rules

721.160 Notification requirements for new chemical substances subject to 
          section 5(e) orders.
721.170 Notification requirements for selected new chemical substances 
          that have completed premanufacture review.
721.185 Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.

     Subpart E_Significant New Uses for Specific Chemical Substances

721.225 2-Chloro-N-methyl-N-substituted acetamide (generic name).
721.267 N-[2-[(substituted dinitrophenyl)azo]diallylamino-4-substituted 
          phenyl] acetamide (generic name).
721.275 Halogenated-N-(2-propenyl)-N-(substituted phenyl) acetamide.
721.285 Acetamide, N-[4-(pentyloxy)phenyl]-, acetamide, N-[2-nitro-4-
          (pentyloxy)phenyl]-, and acetamide, N-[2-amino-4-
          (pentyloxy)phenyl]-.
721.303 Acetic acid, 2-methoxy-, methyl ester.
721.304 Acetic acid, [(5-chloro-8-quinolinyl)oxy-], 1-methyl hexyl 
          ester.
721.305 Di-substituted acetophenone (generic).
721.320 Acrylamide-substituted epoxy.
721.321 Substituted acrylamides and acrylic acid copolymer (generic).
721.323 Substituted acrylamide.
721.324 Alkoxylated acrylate polymer (generic).
721.329 Halogenated benzyl ester acrylate (generic).
721.330 Aromatic acrylate (generic).
721.333 Dimethyl alkylamine salt (generic).
721.336 Perfluoroalkylethyl acrylate copolymer (generic name).
721.338 Certain salts of an acrylate copolymer.
721.405 Polyether acrylate.
721.430 Oxo-substituted aminoalkanoic acid derivative.
721.435 Alkylphenylpolyetheralkanolamines (generic).
721.445 Substituted ethyl alkenamide.
721.450 Hydrofluorochloroalkene (generic).
721.463 Acrylate of polymer based on isophorone diisocyanate (generic).
721.465 Alkoxylated alkylpolyol acrylates, adduct with alkylamine 
          (generic).
721.480 Aminoester of polyalkenylated alkyldicarboxylic acid (generic).
721.484 Fluorinated acrylic copolymer (generic name).
721.505 Halogenated acrylonitrile.
721.520 Alanine, N-(2-carboxyethyl)-N- alkyl-, salt.
721.522 Oxirane, methyl-, polymer with oxirane, mono(3,5,5,-
          trimethylhexyl) ether.
721.524 Alcohols, C<INF>6-12</INF>, ethoxylated, reaction product with 
          maleic anhydride.
721.525 1-propanol, 3-propoxy-.
721.530 Propanoyl chloride, 3-chloro-2,2-dimethyl-.
721.532 1-Butanol, 3-methoxy-3-methyl-, acetate.
721.533 Propane, 1,1,1,3,3-pentachloro-.
721.535 Halogenated alkane (generic).
721.536 Halogenated phenyl alkane.
721.537 Organosilane ester.
721.538 Phenol, 4-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-, homopolymer.
721.539 Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), [alpha]-sulfo-[omega]-[1-[(4-
          nonylphenoxy)methyl]-2-(2-propenyloxy)ethoxy]-, branched, 
          ammonium salts.
721.540 Alkylphenoxypolyalkoxy amine (generic name).
721.545 Polyalkenylalkylphenol (generic).
721.550 Alkyl alkenoate, azobis-.
721.555 Alkyl amino nitriles (generic).
721.558 2-Propanol, 1,1'-iminobis-, N-tallow alkyl derivs., 
          hydrochlorides.
721.562 Substituted alkylamine salt.
721.575 Substituted alkyl halide.
721.600 3-Alkyl-2-(2-anilino)vinyl thi azo lin i um salt (generic name).
721.625 Alkylated diarylamine, sul furized (generic name).
721.630 Salt of a modified tallow alkylenediamine (generic).
721.632 Silicoaluminophosphates, compd. with organic amine (generic).
721.633 Aluminosilicates, phospho-.
721.638 Silyl amine, potassium salt (generic).
721.639 Amine aldehyde condensate.
721.640 Amine substituted metal salts.
721.641 Alkylpoly(oxyalkylene)amine.
721.642 Amines, N-(C<INF>14-18</INF> and C<INF>16-18</INF> unsaturated 
          alkyl)] dipropylene-tri-, tripropylenetetra-, and 
          tetrapropylenepenta-.
721.643 Ethoxylated alcohol, phosphated, amine salt.
721.644 Amines, C<INF>12-14</INF>-tert-alkyl, sulfonates.
721.646 Aminofluoran derivative (generic name).
721.647 Alkoxylated alkyl amine (generic).
721.648 Alkyl dialkylamino phenylsulfonyl alkenoate (generic).
721.650 11-Aminoundecanoic acid.
721.655 Ethoxylated alkyl quaternary ammonium compound.
721.715 Trisubstituted anthracene.
721.720 Alkoxylated fatty acid amide, alkylsulfate salt.
721.750 Aromatic amine compound.
721.757 Polyoxyalkylene substituted aromatic azo colorant.

[[Page 155]]

721.775 Brominated aromatic com pound (generic name).
721.785 Halogenated alkane aromatic compound (generic name).
721.805 Benzenamine, 4,4'-[1,3-phe nyl ene bis(1-methylethyl 
          idene)]bis[2,6-di methyl-.
721.825 Certain aromatic ether diamines.
721.840 Alkyl substituted diaromatic hydrocarbons.
721.843 Substituted phenylazophenylazo phenol (generic).
721.875 Aromatic nitro compound.
721.910 Propanetriol polyalkylenepolyolamine aryl aldimine (generic).
721.925 Substituted aromatic (generic).
721.950 Sodium salt of an alkylated, sulfonated aromatic (generic name).
721.977 Aryloxyarene.
721.980 Sodium salt of azo acid dye.
721.981 Substituted naphtholoazo-substituted naphthalenyl-substituted 
          azonaphthol chromium complex.
721.982 Calcium, bis(2,4-pentanedionato-O,O').
721.983 Sulfonyl azide intermediate (generic).
721.984 Amino-hydroxy sulfonaphthylazo-disubstituted phenyl azo benzene 
          carboxylate salt (generic).
721.987 Dialkylaminophenyl imino pyrazole acid ester (generic).
721.988 Pyrazolone azomethine dye (generic).
721.990 1,4-Benzedicarboxylic acid, dimethyl ester, polymer with 1,4-
          butanediol, cyclized.
721.1000 Benzenamine, 3-chloro-2,6-dinitro-N,N-dipropyl-4-(tri fluoro 
          methyl)-.
721.1025 Benzenamine, 4-chloro-2-methyl-; benzenamine, 4-chloro-2-
          methyl-, hydrochloride; and ben zenamine, 2-chloro-6-methyl-.
721.1050 Benzenamine, 2,5-dibutoxy-4-(4-mor pho linyl)-, sulfate.
721.1055 Benzeneamine, 3,5-difluoro-.
721.1068 Benzenamine, 4-isocyanato-N,N-bis(4-isocyanatophenyl)-2,5-
          dimethoxy-.
721.1070 Benzenamine, 4-methoxy-2-methyl-N-(3-methylphenyl).
721.1075 Benzenamine, 4-(1-methylbutoxy)-, hydrochloride.
721.1085 Benzenamine,4,4'-methylenebis[N-ethyl-N-methyl-.
721.1105 Benzenamine, 4,4'-methylenebis[2-methyl-6-(1-methylethyl)]-.
721.1120 Benzenamine, 4,4'-[1,4-phe nyl ene bis(1-methyle thy li 
          dene)]bis[2,6- dimethyl-.
721.1150 Substituted polyglycidyl ben zena mine.
721.1155 1,4-benzenediol, 2-(1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutyl)-and 
          Bis(dimethylamino substituted)carbomonocycle.
721.1187 Bis(imidoethylene) benzene.
721.1193 Benzene, 2-bromo-1,4-dimethoxy-.
721.1210 Benzene, (2-chloroethoxy)-.
721.1225 Benzene, 1,2-dimethyl-, poly propene derivatives, sulfonated, 
          po tas sium salts.
721.1230 Benzene, ethenyl-, ar-bromo derivatives.
721.1240 Benzene, (2-bromoethyl)-, ar-bromo derivatives.
721.1300 [(Dinitrophenyl)azo]-[2,4-dia mino-5-methoxybenzene] 
          derivatives.
721.1325 Benzene, 1-(1-methylbutoxy)-4-nitro-.
721.1350 Benzene, (1-methylethyl)(2-phenylethyl)-.
721.1372 Substituted nitrobenzene.
721.1375 Disubstituted nitrobenzene (generic name).
721.1425 Pentabromoethylbenzene.
721.1430 Pentachlorobenzene.
721.1435 1,2,4,5-Tetrachlorobenzene.
721.1440 1,3,5-Trinitrobenzene.
721.1450 1,3-Benzenediamine, 4-(1,1-di methyl ethyl)-ar-methyl.
721.1500 1,2-Benzenediamine, 4-ethoxy, sulfate.
721.1550 Benzenediazonium, 4-(di methyl amino)-, salt with 2-hy droxy-5-
          sul fo benzoic acid (1:1).
721.1555 Substituted phenyl azo substituted benzenediazonium salt.
721.1568 Benzenediazonium, 2-(methoxycarbonyl)-, chloride (1:1).
721.1576 1,3-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, bis[[4-[(ethenyloxy)methyl] 
          cyclohexyl] methyl] ester.
721.1577 1,4-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, bis [4-(ethenyloxy) butyl] ester.
721.1578 1,4-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, bis[[4-[(ethenyloxy)methyl] 
          cyclohexyl] methyl] ester.
721.1579 1,2,4-Benzenetricarboxylic acid, tris [4-(ethenyloxy) butyl] 
          ester.
721.1580 Disubstituted benzene ether, polymer with substituted phenol 
          (generic).
721.1612 Substituted 2-nitro- and 2-aminobenzesulfonamide.
721.1620 Benzenesulfonamide, alkylphenyl substituted phenyl substituted 
          carbonyl- (generic).
721.1625 Benzenesulfonic acid, dodecyl-, branched, compds. with N,N-
          dimethyl-1,3-propanediamine (2:1).
721.1630 1,2-Ethanediol bis(4-methylbenzenesulfonate); 2,2-oxybis-ethane 
          bis(4-methylbenzenesulfonate); ethanol, 2,2'-[oxybis(2,1-
          ethanediyl oxy)]bis-, bis(4-methylbenzenesulfonate); ethanol, 
          2,2'-[oxybis (2,1-ethane diyloxy)] bis-, bis(4-
          methylbenzenesulfonate); ethanol, 2,2'-[[1-[(2-propenyloxy) 
          methyl]-1,2-ethanediyl] bis(oxy)]bis-, bis(4-methylbenzene 
          sulfonate); and ethanol, 2-[1-[[2-[2-[[(4-
          methylphenyl)sulfonyl] oxy]ethoxy] ethoxy]methyl]-2-(2-
          propenyloxy)ethoxy]-, 4-methylbenzenesulfonate.

[[Page 156]]

721.1637 1,2-Propanediol, 3-(2-propenyloxy)-, bis(4-methylbenzene 
          sulfonate); 2-propanol, 1-[2-[[(4-methylphenyl)sulfonyl] 
          oxy]ethoxy]-3-(2-propenyloxy)-4-methylbenzenesulfonate; and 2-
          propanol, 1-[2-[2-[[(4-methylphenyl)sulfonyl]oxy] 
          ethoxy]ethoxy]-3-(2-propenyloxy)-, 4-methylbenzenesulfonate.
721.1640 3,6,9,12,-Tetraoxatetradecane-1,14-diol, bis(4-
          methylbenzenesulfonate; 3,6,9,13-tetraoxahexadec-15-ene-1,11-
          diol, bis(4-methylbenzenesulfonate); 3,6,9,12,16-
          pentaoxanonadec-18-ene-1,14-diol, bis(4-methyl 
          benzenesulfonate); and 3,6,9,12-tetraoxatetradecane-1,14-diol, 
          7-[(2-propenyloxy)methyl]-, bis(4-methylbenzenesulfonate).
721.1643 Benzenesulfonic acid, amino substituted phenylazo-.
721.1645 Benzenesulfonic acid, 4-methyl-, reaction products with oxirane 
          mono[(C<INF>10-16</INF>-alkyloxy)methyl] derivatives and 
          2,2,4(or 2,4,4)-trimethyl-1,6-hexanediamine.
721.1648 Substituted benzenesulfonic acid salt (generic).
721.1650 Alkylbenzenesulfonic acid and sodium salts.
721.1655 Alkylbenzenesulfonic acid (generic).
721.1660 Benzidine-based chemical substances.
721.1675 Disulfonic acid rosin amine salt of a benzidine derivative 
          (generic name).
721.1680 Substituted benzoic acid (generic).
721.1700 Halonitrobenzoic acid, substituted (generic name).
721.1705 Benzoic acid, 3-amino-, diazotized, coupled with 6-amino-4-
          hydroxy-2-naphthalenesulfonic acid, diazotized, (3-
          aminophenyl)phosphonic acid and diazotized 2,5-
          diethoxybenzenamine.
721.1725 Benzoic acid, 3,3'-methyl enebis [6 amino-, di-2-propenyl 
          ester.
721.1728 Benzoic acid, 2-(3-phenylbutylidene)amino-, methyl ester.
721.1729 Boric acid (H<INF>3</INF>BO<INF>3</INF>), mixed esters with 
          polyethylene glycol mono-Bu ether and polyethylene glycol mono 
          Me ether.
721.1730 Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), [alpha]-butyl-[omega]-hydroxy, ester 
          with boric acid (H<INF>3</INF>BO<INF>3</INF>).
721.1731 Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), [alpha]-methyl-[omega]-hydroxy, ester 
          with boric acid (H<INF>3</INF>BO<INF>3</INF>).
721.1732 Nitrobenzoic acid octyl ester.
721.1734 Substituted benzonitrile (generic).
721.1735 Alkylbisoxyalkyl (sub sti tut ed-1,1-dimethylethylphenyl) ben 
          zo tria zole (generic name).
721.1738 Substituted benzotriazole (generic name).
721.1745 Ethoxybenzothiazole disulfide.
721.1747 Substituted benzophenone (generic).
721.1750 1H-Benzotriazole, 5-(pentyloxy)- and 1H-benzotriazole, 5-
          (pentyloxy)-, sodium and potassium salts.
721.1755 Methylenebisbenzotriazole.
721.1760 Substituted benzotriazole derivatives.
721.1765 2-Substituted benzotriazole.
721.1767 Substituted 6,6'-(1-methylethylidene)bis[3,4-dihydro-3-phenyl-
          1,3-benzoxazine] (generic).
721.1775 6-Nitro-2(3H)-benzo xazo lone.
721.1790 Polybrominated biphenyls.
721.1800 3,3',5,5'-Tetra methyl bi phenyl-4,4'-diol.
721.1805 Substituted bisaniline.
721.1820 Bisphenol derivative.
721.1825 Bisphenol A, epichloro hy drin, poly al ky lenepolyol and poly 
          iso cyanato derivative.
721.1850 Toluene sulfonamide bisphe nol A epoxy adduct.
721.1852 Di-alkyl borane (generic).
721.1875 Boric acid, alkyl and substituted alkyl esters (generic name).
721.1878 Alkali metal alkyl borohydride (generic).
721.1880 Borate(1-), tris(acetato-.kappa.O)hydro-, sodium, (T-4)-.
721.1900 Substituted bromothiophene.
721.1907 Butanamide, 2,2'-[3'dichloro[1,1'-biphenyl]-4,4'-diyl)bisazobis 
          N-2,3-dihydro-2-oxo-1H-benximdazol-5-yl)-3-oxo-.
721.1920 1,4-Bis(3-hydroxy-4-benzoylphenoxy)butane.
721.1925 Substituted carboheterocyclic butane tetracarboxylate 
          (generic).
721.1930 Butanoic acid, antimony (3=) salt.
721.1950 2-Butenedioic acid (Z), mono(2-((1-oxopropenyloxy)ethyl) ester.
721.2025 Substituted phenylimino carbamate derivative.
721.2060 Disubstituted benzenedicarboxylic acid (generic).
721.2075 Carbamodithioic acid, methyl-, compound with methanamine (1:1).
721.2076 D-Glucuronic acid, polymer with 6-deoxy-L-mannose and D-
          glucose, acetate, calcium magnesium potassium sodium salt.
721.2077 Substituted carbazate (generic).
721.2078 1-Piperidinecarboxylic acid, 2-[(dichloro-hydroxy-
          carbomonocycle)hydrazono]-, methyl ester (generic).
721.2079 Dichloro, hydroxy, hydrazino-carbomonocycle (generic).
721.2081 Dichloro, hydroxy, hydrazino-carbomonocycle-monohydrochloride 
          (generic).
721.2083 Polysubstituted carbomonocyclic hydroxylamine (generic).
721.2084 Carbon oxyfluoride (Carbonic difluoride).
721.2085 Hydroxyalkylquinoline dioxoindandialkylcarboxamide.
721.2086 Coco acid triamine condensate, polycarboxylic acid salts.
721.2087 3-furancarboxaldehyde, tetrahydro-.
721.2088 Carboxylic acids, (C6-C9) branched and linear.

[[Page 157]]

721.2089 Tetrasubstituted aminocarboxylic acid.
721.2091 Propane, 1,1,1,3,3,3-hexachloro-.
721.2092 3-Methylcholanthrene.
721.2093 Alkenyl carboxylate, metal salt (generic).
721.2094 N,N'-di(alkyl heteromonocycle)amino chlorotriazine.
721.2095 Chromate(3), bis 2-[[substituted-3-[(5-sulfo-1-
          napthalenyl)azo]phenyl]azo]substituted monocycle, trisodium 
          (generic name).
721.2097 Azo chromium complex dyestuff preparation (generic name).
721.2098 Aliphatic polycarboxylic acid metal salt (generic).
721.2120 Cyclic amide.
721.2121 Thiosubstituted carbonate ester (generic).
721.2122 Substituted phenyl azo substituted sulfo carbopolycycle.
721.2140 Carbo poly cycli col azo alkyl amino al kyl carbo mono cyclic 
          ester, halogen acid salt.
721.2145 Ceteareth-25 sorbate.
721.2155 Alkoxyamino-alkyl-coumarin (generic).
721.2175 Salt of cyclodiamine and mineral acid.
721.2222 Cyclohexanamine, N,N-dimethyl-, compd. with alpha-isotridecyl-
          omega-hydroxypoly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl) phosphate.
721.2250 1,4-Cyclohexanediamine, cis- and trans-.
721.2260 1,2-Cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, 2,2-bis[[[[2-
          [(oxiranylmethoxy) carbonyl]cyclohexy]carbonyl]oxy]methyl]-
          1,3-propanediyl bis(oxiranylmethyl) ester.
721.2265 Polyalkylene oxide dialkylamine (generic).
721.2270 Aliphatic dicarboxylic acid salt.
721.2275 N,N,N',N'-Tetrakis(oxi ranyl methyl)-1,3-cyclohexane di meth 
          anamine.
721.2280 Cyclopropanecarboxaldehyde.
721.2287 DDT (Dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane).
721.2340 Dialkenylamide (generic name).
721.2345 Alkyletherpropyl dialkylamines.
721.2350 Alkyltri, tetra, and pentaamines.
721.2355 Diethylstilbestrol.
721.2380 Disubstituted diamino ani sole.
721.2385 Fluoroalkyl diester (generic).
721.2410 Alkoxylated alkyldiethylenetriamine, alkyl sulfate salts.
721.2420 Alkoxylated di al kyl die thy lene tri a mine, alkyl sulfate 
          salt.
721.2465 Xanthylium, 9-(2- (ethoxycarbonyl)phenyl)-3,6- bis(ethylamino)-
          2,7-dimethyl-, ethyl sulfate.
721.2475 Dimetridazole.
721.2480 Isoalkyldimethylamine (generic).
721.2485 1,3-Dioxolane, 2-ethenyl-.
721.2520 Alkylated diphenyls.
721.2527 Acetamide, N-[2-[2-(2-bromo-6-cyano-4-nitrophenyl)diazenyl]-5-
          (diethylamino)phenyl]-.
721.2532 Substituted diphenylmethane (generic).
721.2535 Benzene, 1,1'-methylanebis[4-isocyanato-, homopolymer, Bu alc.-
          blocked.
721.2540 Diphenylmethane diisocyanate (MDI) modified.
721.2560 Alkylated diphenyl oxide (generic name).
721.2565 Alkylated sulfonated diphenyl oxide, alkali and amine salts.
721.2570 Alkylated diphenyls (generic).
721.2575 Disubstituted diphenylsulfone.
721.2577 Certain copper complexes of (substituted sulfonaphthyl azo 
          substituted phenyl) disulfonaphthyl azo, amine salt.
721.2580 C.I. Disperse Red 152 (generic).
721.2582 Reaction product of alkylene diamine, MDI, substituted 
          carbomonocyclic amine and alkylamine (generic).
721.2584 Dodecanoic acid, 12-amino-.
721.2585 Sodium salts of dodecylphenol (generic).
721.2600 Epibromohydrin.
721.2625 Reaction product of alkane diol and epichlorohydrin.
721.2673 Aromatic epoxide resin (generic).
721.2675 Perfluoroalkyl epoxide (generic name).
721.2685 Polyisobutene epoxide (generic).
721.2725 Trichlorobutylene oxide.
721.2752 Epoxy resin containing phosphorus (generic).
721.2755 Cycloaliphatic epoxy resin (generic).
721.2800 Erionite fiber.
721.2805 2-Propenoic acid, 2-(phenylthio)ethyl ester.
721.2825 Alkyl ester (generic name).
721.2900 Substituted aminobenzoic acid ester (generic name).
721.2920 tert-Amyl peroxy alkylene ester (generic name).
721.2925 Brominated aromatic ester.
721.2950 Carboxylic acid glycidyl esters.
721.3000 Dicarboxylic acid monoester.
721.3020 Ethaneperoxoic acid, 1,1-dimethylpropyl ester.
721.3025 Fatty acids C<INF>12-18</INF>, C<INF>18</INF> unsaturated, 
          C<INF>12-18</INF> alkyl esters (generic).
721.3031 Boric acid (H<INF>3</INF>BO<INF>3</INF>), zinc salt (2 = 3).
721.3032 Boric acid (H<INF>3</INF>BO<INF>2</INF>), zinc salt.
721.3034 Methylamine esters.
721.3062 1H-Indene-2-carboxylic acid, 5-chloro-2,3-dihydro-1-oxo-, 
          methyl ester.
721.3063 Certain substituted phenyl azo substituted phenyl esters.
721.3080 Substituted phosphate ester (generic).
721.3085 Brominated phthalate ester.
721.3100 Oligomeric silicic acid ester compound with a 
          hydroxylalkylamine.
721.3110 Polycarboxylic acid ester (generic).

[[Page 158]]

721.3130 Sulfuric acid, mono-C<INF>9-11</INF>-alkyl esters, sodium 
          salts.
721.3135 Phosphorous modified epoxy resin (generic).
721.3140 Vinyl epoxy ester.
721.3152 Ethanaminium, N-ethyl-2-hydroxy-N,N-bis(2-hydroxyethyl)-, 
          diester with C<INF>12-18</INF> fatty acids, ethyl sulfates 
          (salts).
721.3155 3,8-Dioxa-4,7-disiladecane, 4,4,7,7-tetraethoxy-.
721.3160 1-Chloro-2-bromoethane.
721.3220 Pentachloroethane.
721.3248 Ethane, 1,2,2-trichlorodifluoro-.
721.3260 Ethanediimidic acids.
721.3310 Poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)],[alpha]-(1-oxo-2-propenyl)-
          [omega]-[(tetrahydro-2-furanyl)methoxy]-.
721.3320 Ethanol, 2-amino-, com pound with N-hydroxy-N-nitro soben zena 
          mine (1:1).
721.3340 Ethanol, 2,2'-(hexylamino)bis-.
721.3350 N-Nitrosodiethanolamine.
721.3360 Substituted ethanolamine.
721.3364 Aliphatic ether.
721.3374 Alkylenediolalkyl ether.
721.3380 Benzenamine, 4-methoxy-2-methyl-N-phenyl-.
721.3420 Benzene, 1-bromo-4-methoxy-2-methyl-.
721.3430 4-Bromophenyl phenyl ether.
721.3435 Butoxy-substituted ether alkane.
721.3437 Dialkyl ether.
721.3438 Chlorohydroxyalkyl butyl ether (generic).
721.3440 Haloalkyl substituted cyclic ethers.
721.3465 Stilbene diglycidyl ether.
721.3480 Halogenated biphenyl glycidyl ethers.
721.3485 Hydrofluorocarbon alkyl ether.
721.3486 Polyglycerin mono(4-nonylphenyl) ether.
721.3488 Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), alpha substituted-omega-hydroxy-, 
          C<INF>16-20</INF> alkyl ethers.
721.3500 Perhalo alkoxy ether.
721.3520 Aliphatic polyglycidyl ether.
721.3550 Dipropylene glycol dimethyl ether.
721.3560 Derivative of tetra chloro ethy lene.
721.3565 Ethylenediamine, substituted, sodium salt.
721.3620 Fatty acid amine condensate, polycarboxylic acid salts.
721.3625 Fatty acid amine salt (generic name).
721.3627 Branched synthetic fatty acid.
721.3629 Triethanolamine salts of fatty acids.
721.3635 Octadecanoic acid, ester with 1,2-propanediol, phosphate, 
          anhydride with silicic acid (H<INF>4</INF>SiO<INF>4</INF>).
721.3680 Ethylene oxide adduct of fatty acid ester with pentaerythritol.
721.3700 Fatty acid, ester with styrenated phenol, ethylene oxide 
          adduct.
721.3710 Polyether modified fatty acids (generic).
721.3720 Fatty amide.
721.3740 Bisalkylated fatty alkyl amine oxide
721.3760 Fluorene-containing diaromatic amines.
721.3764 Fluorene substituted aromatic amine.
721.3780 Substituted and disubstituted tetrafluoro alkenes (generic).
721.3790 Polyfluorocarboxylates.
721.3800 Formaldehyde, condensated poly ox y eth y lene fatty acid, 
          ester with styrenated phenol, ethylene oxide adduct.
721.3805 Formaldehyde, reaction products with 1,3-benzenedimethanamine 
          and bisphenol A.
721.3807 Formaldehyde, polymer with phenol and 1,2,3-propanetriol, 
          methylated.
721.3810 Formaldehyde, polymers with substituted phenols (generic).
721.3812 Substituted phenols and formaldehyde polymer, alkylated 
          (generic).
721.3815 Furan, 2-(ethoxymethyl)- tetrahydro-.
721.3818 Furan, octafluorotetrahydro-.
721.3820 L-Glutamic acid, N-(1-oxododecyl)-, disodium salt.
721.3821 L-Gutamic acid, N-(1-oxododecyl)-.
721.3830 Phenol, 2-[[[3-(dimethylamino)propyl]amino]methyl]-6-methyl-, 
          4-polybutene derivs.
721.3835 Chloroformate (generic).
721.3840 Tetraglycidalamines (generic name).
721.3845 Alkyl substituted aromatic glycidyl ether (generic).
721.3848 Glycine, N-(carboxymethyl)-N-dodecyl-, monosodium salt.
721.3860 Glycol monobenzoate.
721.3880 Polyalkylene glycol substituted acetate.
721.3900 Alkyl polyethylene glycol phosphate, potassium salt.
721.4000 Polyoxy alkylene glycol amine.
721.4040 Glycols, polyethylene-, 3-sulfo-2-hy drox y pro pyl-p-(1,1,3,3-
          tetra methylbutyl)phenyl ether, sodium salt.
721.4060 Alkylene glycol tereph tha late and substituted benzoate esters 
          (generic name).
721.4080 MNNG (N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine).
721.4085 Guanidine, pentaethyl-.
721.4090 Ethanaminium, N-[bis(diethylamino)-methylene]-N-ethyl-, 
          bromide.
721.4095 Quaternary ammonium alkyltherpropyl trialkylamine halides.
721.4096 Substituted anilino halobenzamide (generic).
721.4097 7-Oxabicyclo[4.1.0]heptane-3-carboxylic acid, methyl ester.
721.4098 Substituted heteroaromatic-2[[4-(dimethylamino) phenyl]azo]-3-
          methyl-, salts (generic).
721.4100 Tris(disubstituted alkyl) heter o cy cle.

[[Page 159]]

721.4105 Bicyclo[2.2.1]hept-2-ene, 5-butyl-.
721.4106 Bicyclo[2.2.1]hept-2-ene, 5-hexyl-.
721.4107 Bicyclo[2.2.1]hept-2-ene, 5-octyl-.
721.4108 Bicyclo[2.2.1]hept-2-ene, 5-decyl-.
721.4110 Allyloxysubstituted heterocycle.
721.4128 Dimethyl-3-substituted heter o mon o cy cle.
721.4133 Dimethyl-3-substituted heteromonocyclic amine.
721.4136 Alkyl heteropolycyclic-aniline (generic).
721.4140 Hexachloronorbornadiene.
721.4155 Hexachloropropene.
721.4158 Hexadecanoic acid, ethenyl ester.
721.4160 Hexafluoropropylene oxide.
721.4180 Hexamethylphosphoramide.
721.4215 Hexanedioic acid, diethenyl ester.
721.4250 Hexanoic acid, 2-ethyl-, ethenyl ester.
721.4255 1,4,7,10,13,16-Hexaoxacyclooctadecane, 2-[(2-propenyl 
          oxy)methyl]-.
721.4257 Hydrazine, (2-fluorophenyl).
721.4258 Substituted naphthalene hydrazide (generic).
721.4259 Aliphatic polyisocyanate homopolymer.
721.4260 Hydrazine, [4-(1-meth yl bu toxy)phenyl]-, monohydrochloride.
721.4265 Hydrazinecarboxamide, N-(3,5-difluorophenyl-).
721.4270 Nitrophenoxylalkanoic acid substituted thiazino hydrazide 
          (generic name).
721.4280 Substituted hydrazine.
721.4300 Hydrazinecarboxamide, N,N'-1,6-hexanediylbis [2,2-dimethyl-].
721.4320 Hydrazinecarboxamide, N,N'-(meth yl en edi-4,1-phenylene)bis 
          [2,2-dimethyl-.
721.4340 Substituted thiazino hydrazine salt (generic name).
721.4360 Certain hydrogen containing chlor o fluor o carbons.
721.4365 Substituted ethoxylated hydrocarbon (generic).
721.4380 Modified hydrocarbon resin.
721.4385 Hydrofluoric acid, reaction products with heptane.
721.4390 Trisubstituted hydroquinone diester.
721.4420 Substituted hydroxylamine.
721.4460 Amidinothiopropionic acid hydrochloride.
721.4461 Hydrofluoric acid, reaction products with octane (generic).
721.4462 Hydrochlorofluorocarbon.
721.4463 Hydrochlorofluorocarbon.
721.4464 Mixture of hydrofluoro alkanes and hydrofluoro alkene.
721.4465 Hydrofluoroalkane.
721.4467 Quaternary ammonium hydroxide.
721.4468 1H-Imidazole, 2-ethyl-4,5-dihydro-4-methyl-.
721.4469 Imidazolethione.
721.4470 2,4-Imidazolidinedione, bromochloro-5,5-dimethyl-.
721.4472 Phenyl, alkyl, hydroxyalkyl substituted imidazole (generic).
721.4473 Dialkylamidoimidazoline.
721.4476 Substituted imines.
721.4480 2-Imino-1,3-thiazin-4-one-5,6-dihydromonohydrochloride.
721.4484 Halogenated indane (generic name).
721.4486 Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, (1R,2R,4R)-1,7,7-
          trimethylbicyclo[2.2.1]hept-2-yl ester, rel-.
721.4490 Capped aliphatic isocyanate.
721.4494 Polycyclic isocyanate.
721.4497 Aliphatic polyisocyanates (generic name).
721.4500 Isopropylamine distillation residues and ethylamine 
          distillation residues.
721.4520 Isopropylidene, bis(1,1-di meth yl pro pyl) derivative.
721.4550 Diperoxy ketal.
721.4565 Modified hydroxystyrene homopolymer (generic).
721.4568 Methylpolychloro aliphatic ketone.
721.4575 L-aspartic acid, N,N'-[(1E) - 1,2- ethenediylbis[(3-sulfo-4, 1-
          phenylene)imino [6-(phenylamino)-1,3,5- triazine- 4,2- 
          diyl]]]bis-, hexasodium salt.
721.4585 Lecithins, phospholipase A2-hydrolyzed.
721.4587 Lithium manganese oxide (LiMn204) (generic name).
721.4589 Propanedioic acid, [(4-methoxyphenyl)methylene]-, 
          bis(1,2,2,6,6-pentamethyl-4-piperdinyl) ester (9CI).
721.4590 Mannich-based adduct.
721.4594 Substituted azo metal complex dye.
721.4596 Diazo substituted carbomonocyclic metal complex.
721.4600 Recovered metal hydroxide.
721.4610 Mixed metal oxides (generic).
721.4620 Zinc, bis(N,N-dipropyl-.beta.-alaninato-.kappa.N,.kappa.O)-, 
          (T-4)-.
721.4660 Alcohol, alkali metal salt.
721.4663 Fluorinated carboxylic acid alkali metal salts.
721.4668 Hydrated alkaline earth metal salts of metalloid oxyanions.
721.4685 Substituted purine metal salt (generic name).
721.4700 Metalated alkylphenol copolymer (generic name).
721.4720 Disubstituted phenoxazine, chlor o me tal ate salt.
721.4740 Alkali metal nitrites.
721.4792 2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, C<INF>11-14</INF>-isoalkyl esters, 
          C<INF>13</INF>-rich.
721.4794 Polypiperidinol-acrylate methacrylate.
721.4820 Methane, bromodifluoro-.
721.4840 Substituted tri phenyl meth ane.
721.4880 Methanol, trichloro-, carbonate (2:1).
721.4885 Methanone, [5-[[3-(2H-benzotriazol-2-yl)-2-hydroxy-5-(1,1,3,3-
          tetramethylbutyl)phenyl]methyl]-2-hydroxy-4-(octyloxy) 
          phenyl]phenyl-.

[[Page 160]]

721.4925 Methyl n-butyl ketone.
721.5050 2,2'-[(1-Methyl ethylidene) bis[4,1-phenyl oxy[1-(butoxy 
          methyl)-(2,1-ethan ediyl]oxy methyl ene]]biso xirane, reaction 
          product with a diamine.
721.5075 Mixed methyltin mercaptoester sulfides.
721.5175 Mitomycin C.
721.5185 2-Propen-1-one, 1-(4-morpholinyl)-.
721.5192 Substituted 1,6-dihydroxy naphthalene.
721.5200 Disubstituted phenylazo tri sub sti tut ed naphthalene.
721.5225 Naphthalene,1,2,3,4-tetra hy dro(1-phenylethyl) (specific 
          name).
721.5250 Trimethyl spiropolyheterocyclic naph tha lene compound.
721.5252 2-Naphthalenecarboxylic acid, 4,4'-methylenebis [3-hydroxy-, 
          zinc salt.
721.5253 2-Naphthalenecarboxylic acid, 4,4'-methylenebis [3-hydroxy-, 
          strontium salt.
721.5255 2-Naphthalenol, mono and dioctyl derivs.
721.5260 1,3,6-Naphthalenetrisulfonic acid, 7-[[2-
          [(aminocarbonyl)amino]-4-[[4-[[2-[2-
          (ethenylsulfonyl)ethoxy]ethyl]amino]-6-fluoro-1,3,5-triazin-2-
          yl]amino]phenyl]azo], trisodium salt.
721.5262 2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 5-[[4-chloro-6-[[2-[2-
          (ethenylsulfonyl)ethoxy]ethyl]amino]-1,3,5-triazin-2-
          yl]amino]-4-hydroxy-3-[2-(1-sulfo-2-naphthalenyl)diazenyl]-, 
          sodium salt (1:3).
721.5275 2-Napthalenecarboxamide-N-aryl-3-hydroxy-4-arylazo (generic 
          name).
721.5276 2-Napthalenol, heptyl-1-[[(4-phenylazo)phenyl]azo]-, ar', ar''-
          Me derivs.
721.5278 Substituted naphthalenesulfonic acid, alkali salt.
721.5279 2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-amino-3-[[4'2-amino-4-[(3-
          butoxy-2-hydroxypropyl)amino]phebyl]azo]-3,3'-dimethyl[1,1'-
          biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-5-hydroxy-6-(phenylazo)-, disodium salt.
721.5280 2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-amino-5-hydroxy-, coupled 
          with diazotized 4-butylbenzenamine, diazotized 4,4'-
          cyclohexylidenebis[benzenamine] and m-phenylenediamine, sodium 
          salt.
721.5281 2-Naphthalenesulfonic acid, 3-[[4-[(2,4-dimethyl-6-
          sulfophenyl)azo]-2-methoxy-5-methylphenyl]azo]-4-hydroxy-7-
          (phenylamino)-, sodium salt, compd. With 2,2',2''-nitrilotris 
          [ethanol] (9CI).
721.5282 Trisodium chloro [(trisubstituted heteromonocycle amino) 
          propylamino]triazinylamino hydroxyazo naphthalenetrisulfonate.
721.5283 Cobaltate (5-), bis[4-[[6-[(4-amino-6-chloro-1,3,5-triazin-2-
          yl)amio]-1-hydroxy-3-sulfo-2-naphthalenyl]azo]-3-hydroxy-7-
          nitro-1-naphthalenesulfonato(4-)]-, pentasodium.
721.5284 Chromate (5-), bis[4-hydroxy-7-[(2-hydroxy-1-naphthalenyl)azo]- 
          3-[(2-hydroxy-3-nitro-5-sulfophenyl)azo]-2- 
          naphthalenesulfonato(4-)]-, pentasodium.
721.5285 Ethoxylated substituted naphthol.
721.5286 Benzenediazonium, [[[[(substituted)azo]phenyl]sulfonyl]amino]-, 
          coupled with aminophenol, diazotized aminobenzoic acid, 
          diazotized (substituted) benzenesulfonic acid and naphthalenol 
          (generic).
721.5288 Chromate(2-), [3-hydroxy-4-[(2-hydroxy-1-naphthenyl)azo]-7-
          nitro-1-substituted][N-[7-hydroxy-8-[(2-hydroxy-5-
          nitrophenyl)azo]-1-substituted]-, salt (generic).
721.5290 Phenylazoalkoxy naphthylamines (generic).
721.5293 Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), alpha-(9Z)-9-octadecenyl-.omega.-
          hydroxy-, phosphate, ammonium salt.
721.5310 Neononanoic acid, ethenyl ester.
721.5315 Nickel, cobalt mixed metal oxide (generic).
721.5325 Nickel, tris(neodecanoato-.kappa.O)[.mu.3-[orthoborato(3-
          )-.kappa.O:.kappa.O':.kappa.O'']]tri-.
721.5330 Nickel salt of an organo compound containing nitrogen.
721.5340 Substituted benzothiazole-azo-substituted benzoquinoline nickel 
          complex (generic).
721.5350 Butanenitrile, 2-amino-2,3-dimethyl-.
721.5356 Ethanol, 2,2'2''-nitrilotris-, compound with alpha-2,4,6-tris 
          (1-phenylethyl)phenyl]-omega-hydroxypoly (oxy-1,2-ethanediyl) 
          phosphate.
721.5358 2-propanol, 1,1',1'-nitrilotris-, compds. with ethanol 2-[2-
          (C<INF>12-14</INF>- alkyloxy) ethoxy] derivs. hydrogen 
          sulfates.
721.5360 Substituted nitrobenezene (generic).
721.5375 Ni tro thio phene car boxy lic acid, ethyl es ter, 
          bis[[[[(substi tut ed)] ami no ]alkyl phenyl] az o] (ge ner ic 
          name).
721.5378 9-Phosphabicyclo[3.3.1]nonane,9,9'-(1,2-ethanediyl)bis- (9C1).
721.5380 Mixed alkyl phenolic novolak resin (generic).
721.5385 Octanoic acid, hydrazide.
721.5400 3,6,9,12,15,18,21-Hepta oxa tetra triaoctanoic acid, sodium 
          salt.
721.5425 [alpha]-Olefin sulfonate, potassium salts.
721.5450 [alpha]-Olefin sulfonate, sodium salt.
721.5452 Alkali metal salt of halogenated organoborate (generic).
721.5454 Methylium, tripohenyl-, tetrakis(pentafluorophenyl) borate (1-
          ).
721.5460 Organosolv lignin.
721.5465 Amine salt of organic acid (generic).
721.5475 1-Oxa-4-azaspiro[4.5]decane, 4-di chlor o ace tyl-.
721.5500 7-Oxabicyclo[4.1.0]heptane, 3-ethenyl, homopolymer, ether with 
          2-ethyl-2-

[[Page 161]]

          (hydroxymethyl)-1,3-pro pane diol (3:1), epoxidized.
721.5525 Substituted spiro oxazine.
721.5540 1H,3H,5H-oxazolo [3,4-c] oxazole, dihydro-7a-methyl-.
721.5545 3-(Dichloroacetyl)-5-(2-furanyl)-2,2-dimethyl-oxazolidine.
721.5546 Halogen substituted oxetanes (generic).
721.5547 Antimony double oxide.
721.5548 Mixed metal oxide (generic).
721.5549 Lithiated metal oxide.
721.5550 Substituted dialkyl oxa zo lone (generic name).
721.5560 Formaldehyde, polymer with (chloromethyl) oxirane and phenol, 
          reaction products with 6H-dibenz[c,e][1,2]oxaphosphorin-6-
          oxide.
721.5575 Oxirane, 2,2'-(1,6-hex ane diyl bis (oxy meth y lene)) bis-.
721.5580 Oxirane, 2,2'-[methylenebis[(2,6-dimethyl-4,1-
          phenylene)oxymethylene]]bis-.
721.5585 4,4'-(1-methylethylidene)bisphenol, polymer with 
          (chloromethyl)oxirane and a diamine (generic).
721.5590 Oxirane, [[[(1R,2S,5R)-5-methyl-2-(1-
          methylethyl)cyclohexyl]oxy]methyl]-.
721.5600 Substituted oxirane.
721.5625 Oxiranemethanamine, N,N'-[methylenebis(2-ethyl-4,1-
          phenylene)]bis[N-(oxiranylmethyl)]-.
721.5645 Pentane 1,1,1,2,3,4,4,5,5,5,-decafluoro.
721.5650 Pentanediol light residues.
721.5700 Pentanenitrile, 3-amino-.
721.5708 2-Pentene, 1,1,1,2,3,4,4,5,5,5-decafluoro-.
721.5710 Phenacetin.
721.5713 Phenol - biphenyl polymer condensate (generic).
721.5725 Phenol, 2,4-dimethyl-6-(1-methylpentadecyl)-.
721.5740 Phenol, 4,4'-methy lenebis (2,6-dimethyl-.
721.5760 Phenol, 4,4'-[methylene bis (oxy-2,1-ethanediylthio)]bis-.
721.5762 Aromatic aldehyde phenolic resin (generic).
721.5763 Methylenebisbenzotriazolyl phenols.
721.5769 Mixture of nitrated alkylated phenols.
721.5775 Phenol, 5-amino-2,4-dicholoro-, hydrochloride.
721.5780 Phenol, 4,4'-(oxybis(2,1-ethan ed iyl thio)bis-.
721.5800 Sulfurized alkylphenol.
721.5820 Aminophenol.
721.5840 Ethylated aminophenol.
721.5860 Methylphenol, bis(sub sti-tut ed)alkyl.
721.5867 Substituted phenol.
721.5880 Sulfur bridged substituted phenols (generic name).
721.5900 Trisubstituted phenol (generic name).
721.5905 Modified phenolic resin (generic).
721.5908 Modified phenolic resin (generic).
721.5912 Phenoxazin-5-ium, 3-dialkylamino-7-arylamino-, salt (generic).
721.5913 Phenothiazine derivative.
721.5914 Polysubstituted bis phenylazonapthalene disulfonic acid 
          (generic).
721.5915 Polysubstituted phenyl azo poly substi tuted phenyl dye.
721.5917 Phenyl azo dye (generic).
721.5920 Phenyl(disubstitutedpolycyclic).
721.5925 Bis heterocyclic phenylene derivative (generic).
721.5930 Phenylenebis[imino (chlorotriazinyl)-imino (substituted 
          napthyl)azo (substituted phenyl) azo, sodium salt (generic 
          name).
721.5935 Alkylated nitroso-phenylenediamine (generic).
721.5960 N,N'-Bis(2-(2-(3-alkyl)thia zoline) vinyl)-1,4-pheny lene dia 
          mine methyl sulfate double salt (generic name).
721.5965 Substituted S-phenylthiazole (generic).
721.5970 Phosphated polyarylphenol ethoxylate, potassium salt.
721.5980 Dialkyl phosphorodithioate phosphate compounds.
721.5985 Fatty alkyl phosphate, alkali metal salt (generic).
721.6000 Tris (2,3-dibromopropyl) phosphate.
721.6005 Rare earth phosphate (generic).
721.6020 Phosphine, dialkylyphenyl.
721.6045 Phosphinothioic acid, bis(2,4,4-trimethylpentyl)- (9CI).
721.6060 Alkylaryl substituted phosphite.
721.6070 Alkyl phosphonate ammonium salts.
721.6075 Phosphonic acid, 1,1-methylenebis-tetrakis(1-methylethyl) 
          ester.
721.6080 Phosphonium salt (generic name).
721.6085 Phosphonocarboxylate salts.
721.6090 Phosphoramide.
721.6097 Phosphoric acid derivative (generic name).
721.6100 Phosphoric acid, C<INF>6-12</INF>-alkyl esters, compounds with 
          2-(dibutylamino) ethanol.
721.6110 Alkyldi(alkyloxyhydroxypropyl) derivative, phosphoric acid 
          esters, potassium salts.
721.6120 Phosphoric acid, 1,2-ethanediyl tetrakis(2-chloro-1-
          methylethyl) ester.
721.6140 Dialkyldithiophosphoric acid, aliphatic amine salt.
721.6160 Piperazinone, 1,1',1''-[1,3,5-triazine-2,4,6-
          triyltris[(cyclohexylimino)-2,1-ethanediyl]]tris-[3,3,4,5,5-
          pentamethyl]-.
721.6165 Polysubstituted piperidine.
721.6167 Piperdinium, 1,1-dimethyl-, chloride.
721.6170 Siloxanes and silicones, Me hydrogen, reaction products with 
          2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-4-(2-propenyloxy)piperdine.
721.6175 2-Piperdinone, 1,3-dimethyl-,.
721.6176 2-Piperdinone, 1,5-dimethyl-,.

[[Page 162]]

721.6178 Alkylaminated polyolefin (generic).
721.6180 Polyalkylene glycol polyamide ester phosphate (generic).
721.6181 Fatty acid, reaction product with substituted oxirane, 
          formaldehyde-phenol polymer glycidyl ether, substituted 
          proplyamine and polyethylenepolyamines (generic).
721.6183 Amides, from ammonium hydroxide - maleic anhydride polymer and 
          hydrogenated tallow alkyl amines, sodium salts, compds. with 
          ethanolamine.
721.6186 Polyamine dithiocarbamate.
721.6193 Polyalkylene polyamine.
721.6196 Hydrochloride salt of a fatty polyalkkylene polyamine 
          (generic).
721.6200 Fatty acid polyamine condensate, phosphoric acid ester salts.
721.6205 Hexamethylenediamine adduct of substituted piperidinyloxy 
          (generic).
721.6220 Aryl sulfonate of a fatty acid mixture, polyamine condensate.
721.6440 Polyamine urea for malde hyde condensate (specific name).
721.6470 Polyaminopolyacid.
721.6475 Alkyl polycarboxylic acids, esters with ethoxylated fatty 
          alcohols.
721.6477 Alkyl polycarboxylic acids, esters with ethoxylated fatty 
          alcohols, reaction products with maleic anhydride.
721.6479 Tetrahydroheteropolycycle (generic).
721.6485 Hydroxy terminated polyester.
721.6490 Alkyl phenyl polyetheramines.
721.6493 Amidoamine modified polyethylene glycol (generic).
721.6495 Aliphatic polyisocyanate.
721.6498 Modified polyisocyanates (generic).
721.6505 Polymers of C<INF>13</INF>C<INF>15</INF> oxoalcohol 
          ethoxolates.
721.6515 Polymerof polyalkylenepolyol and trisubstituted phenol 
          (generic).
721.6520 Acrylamide, polymer with substituted alkylacrylamide salt 
          (generic name).
721.6540 Acrylamide, polymers with tetraalkyl ammonium salt and 
          polyalkyl, aminoalkyl methacrylamide salt.
721.6560 Acrylic acid, polymer with substituted ethene.
721.6620 Alkanaminium, polyalkyl-[(2-methyl-1-oxo-2-propenyl)oxy] salt, 
          polymer with acrylamide and substituted alkyl methacrylate.
721.6660 Polymer of alkanepolyol and poly alkyl poly iso cyan ato car bo 
          mo no cycle, acetone oxime-blocked (generic name).
721.6680 Alkanoic acid, butanediol and cyclohexanealkanol polymer 
          (generic name).
721.6900 Polymer of bisphenol A diglycidal ether, substituted alkenes, 
          and butadiene.
721.6920 Butyl acrylate, polymer with substituted methyl styrene, methyl 
          methacrylate, and substituted silane.
721.6980 Dimer acids, polymer with poly al ky lene glycol, bisphenol A-
          diglycidyl ether, and alky lenepolyols polyglycidyl ethers 
          (generic name).
721.7000 Polymer of disodium maleate, allyl ether, and ethylene oxide.
721.7020 Distillates (petroleum), C(3-6), polymers with styrene and 
          mixed terpenes (generic name).
721.7046 Formaldehyde, polymer with substituted phenols, glycidyl ether.
721.7160 2-Oxepanone, polymer with 4,4'-(1-methylethylidene)bisphenol 
          and 2,2-[(1-methylethylidene)bis(4,1-phe ny lene oxy methyl 
          ene)] bi soxirane, graft.
721.7200 Perfluoroalkyl aromatic carbamate modified alkyl methacrylate 
          copolymer.
721.7210 Epoxidized copolymer of phenol and substituted phenol.
721.7220 Polymer of substituted phenol, formaldehyde, epichlorohydrin, 
          and disubstituted benzene.
721.7250 Polyaziridinyl ester of an aliphatic alcohol (generic).
721.7255 Polyethyleneamine crosslinked with substituted polyethylene 
          glycol (generic).
721.7260 Polymer of poly ethylene polyamine and alkanediol diglycidyl 
          ether.
721.7270 1-propanaminium, 3-amino-, N,N,N-trimethyl-N-soya acyl derivs., 
          chloride.
721.7280 1,3-Propanediamine, N,N'-1,2-eth an ediyl bis-, polymer with 
          2,4,6-trichloro-1,3,5-triazine, reaction products with N-
          butyl-2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-4-pip er i dinamine.
721.7285 Amines, N-cocoalkyltrimethylenedi-, citrates.
721.7286 Amines, N-tallowalkyltripropylenetetra-, citrates.
721.7290 Propanoic acid, 2-(trimethoxysilyl)-, ethyl ester.
721.7375 Potassium salt of polyolefin acid.
721.7378 Substituted polyoxyethylene.
721.7440 Polyalkylenepolyol alky la mine. (generic name).
721.7450 Aromatic amine polyols.
721.7480 Isocyanate terminated polyols.
721.7500 Nitrate polyether polyol (generic name).
721.7600 Alkyl(heterocyclicyl) phe nyl az o he tero monocyclic poly one 
          (generic name).
721.7620 Alkyl(heterocyclicyl) phe nyl az o he tero monocyclic polyone, 
          ((alkylimidazolyl) methyl) derivative (generic name).
721.7655 Alkylsulfonium salt.
721.7700 Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), [alpha]-hydro-[omega]-
          (oxiranylmethoxy)-, ether with 2-ethyl-2-(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-
          propanediol (3:1).
721.7710 Polyepoxy polyol.
721.7720 Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), [alpha],[alpha]'-[(1-
          methylethylidene) di-4,1-phenylene] bis [[omega]-(oxiranyl 
          methoxy)-.
721.7770 Alkylphenoxypoly(oxyethylene) sulfuric acid ester, substituted 
          amine salt.

[[Page 163]]

721.7780 Poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethane diyl)], [alpha],[alpha]'-(2,2-
          dimethyl-1,3-propanediyl)bis[[omega]-(oxirany methoxy)-.
721.7785 Substituted alkyl aminomethylene polyphosphonic acid, salt 
          (generic).
721.8079 Isophorone diisocyanate neopentyl glycol adipate polyurethane 
          prepolymer.
721.8082 Polyester polyurethane acrylate.
721.8085 Reaction product of substituted aromatic diol, formaldehyde and 
          alkanolamine, propoxylated (generic).
721.8090 Polyurethane polymer.
721.8095 Silylated polyurethane.
721.8100 Potassium N,N-bis (hydroxy ethyl) cocoamine oxide phosphate, 
          and potassium N,N-bis (hydroxyethyl) tallowamine oxide 
          phosphate.
721.8130 Propanamide, -(2-hydroxyethyl)-3-methoxy-.
721.8140 Substituted propane (generic).
721.8145 Propane,1,1,1,2,2,3,3-heptafluoro-3-methoxy-.
721.8153 Di-substituted propanedione (generic).
721.8155 Propanenitrile, 3-[amino, N-tallowalkyl] dipropylenetri- and 
          tripropylenetri- and propanenitrile, 3-[amino, 
          (C<INF>14-18</INF> and C<INF>16-18</INF> unsaturated alkyl)] 
          trimethylenedi-, dipropylenetri-, and tripropylenetetra-.
721.8160 Propanoic acid, 2,2-dimethyl-, ethenyl ester.
721.8175 1-Propanol, 3-mercapto-.
721.8225 2-Propenamide, N-[3-di methyl amino)propyl]-.
721.8250 1-Propanol, 3,3'-oxybis[2,2-bis(bro mo methyl)-.
721.8340 Mono esters from 2- propenoic acid (generic).
721.8350 2-Propenoic acid, 7-ox a bi cy clo[4.1.0]hept-3-ylmethyl ester.
721.8450 2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-[3-(2H-benzotriazol-2-yl)-4-
          hydroxyphenyl]ethyl ester.
721.8485 2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, (octahydro-4,7-methano-1H- indene-
          5-diyl)bis(methylene) ester.
721.8500 2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 7-oxabicyclo [4.1.0]hept-3-
          ylmethyl ester.
721.8657 Cerium, hydroxy oleate propionate complexes.
721.8658 Modified polymer of vinyl acetate and quaternary ammonium 
          compound (generic).
721.8660 Propionic acid methyl ester (generic).
721.8670 Alkylcyano substituted pyridazo benzoate.
721.8673 [(Disubstituted phenyl)]azo dihydro hydroxy alkyl oxo alkyl-
          substituted-pyridines (generic name).
721.8675 Halogenated pyridines.
721.8700 Pyridine, 2,3-dichloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)-.
721.8750 Halogenated substituted pyridine.
721.8775 Substituted pyridines.
721.8780 Substituted pyridine azo substituted phenyl.
721.8825 Substituted methylpyridine and substituted 2-phenoxypyridine.
721.8850 Disubstituted halogenated py rid i nol.
721.8875 Substituted halogenated pyridinol.
721.8900 Substituted halogenated pyridinol, alkali salt.
721.8920 4,6-Disubstituted pyrimidine (generic).
721.8940 Chromate(3-), bis[3-[[6-amino-1,4-dihydro-2-[[[4-[(2-hydroxy-1-
          naphthalenyl)azo] phenyl]sulfonyl] amino]-4-(oxo-.kappa.O)-5- 
          pyrimidinyl]azo-.kappaN1] -4-hydroxy-.kappa.O)-5-
          nitrobenzenesulfonato(3-)]-, trisodium.
721.8950 Chromate(3-), bis[3-[[6-amino-1,4-dihydro-2-[[[4-[(2-hydroxy-1-
          naphthalenyl)azo] phenyl]sulfonyl]amino]-4-(oxo-.kappa.O)-5-
          pyrimidinyl]azo-.kappaN1]-4-hydroxy-.kappa.O)-5-
          nitrobenzenesulfonato(3-)]-, sodium triethanolamine salts.
721.8965 1H-Pyrole-2, 5-dione, 1-(2,4,6-tribromophenyl)-.
721.9000 N-Nitrosopyrrolidine.
721.9005 2-Pyrrolidinone, 1,1'-(2-methyl-1,5-pentanediyl)bis-.
721.9010 2-pyrrolidone, 1-ethenyl-3-ethylidene-, (E)-.
721.9075 Quaternary ammonium salt of fluorinated alkylaryl amide.
721.9078 6-Methoxy-1H-benz[de]isoquinoline-2 [3H]-dione derivative 
          (generic).
721.9079 Dihydro quinacridone derivative (generic).
721.9080 Nitro methyl quinoline.
721.9100 Substituted quinoline.
721.9220 Reaction products of secondary alkyl amines with a substituted 
          benzenesulfonic acid and sulfuric acid (generic name).
721.9265 Reaction product of dichlorobenzidine and substituted 
          alkylamide.
721.9270 Reaction product of epoxy with anhydride and glycerol and 
          glycol.
721.9280 Reaction product of ethoxylated fatty acid oils and a phenolic 
          pentaerythritol tetraester.
721.9285 Schiff bases, from ammonia-diethylene glycol reaction product 
          fractionation forecuts and formaldehyde.
721.9300 Reaction products of substituted hydroxy alkanes and polyalkyl 
          polyiso cyanato carbomono cycle.
721.9400 Reaction product of phenolic pentaerythritol tetraesters with 
          fatty acid esters and oils, and glyceride triesters.
721.9460 Tall oil fatty acids, reaction products with polyamines, alkyl 
          substituted.
721.9470 Reserpine.
721.9480 Formaldehyde, polymer with 1,3-benzenediol and ethenylbenzene.

[[Page 164]]

721.9484 Dimer acid/rosin amidoamine reaction product (generic).
721.9485 Dimer acid/polymerized rosin amidoamine reaction product 
          (generic).
721.9486 Roxin amidoamine (generic).
721.9487 Polymerized rosin amidoamine (generic).
721.9488 Substituted resorcinols.
721.9490 Coco alklydimethyl amine salts (generic).
721.9492 Certain polymers of styrene, cyclohexyl methacrylate and 
          substituted methacrylate.
721.9495 Acrylosilane resins.
721.9497 Certain trifunctional ketoximino silanes.
721.9499 Modified silicone resin.
721.9500 Silane, (1,1-dimethylethoxy) di meth oxy(2-methyl propyl)-.
721.9501 Silane, triethoxy[3-oxiranylmethoxy)propyl]-.
721.9502 Siloxanes and silicones, aminoalkyl, fluorooctyl, hydroxy-
          terminated salt (generic).
721.9503 Silane, (3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,9,9,10,10,10-
          heptadecafluorodecyl)trimethoxy-.
721.9504 Silane, triethoxy (3,3,4,4,5,5, 6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
          tridecafluorooctyl)-.
721.9505 Silanes substituted macrocycle polyethyl.
721.9506 Halogenated arylsilane (generic).
721.9507 Polyester silane.
721.9508 Perfluorinatedalkyl polyhydroxysilane (generic).
721.9509 Perfluorinatedalkyl polyalkoxysilane (generic).
721.9511 Silicic acid (H<INF>6</INF>SiO<INF>2</INF>O<INF>7</INF>), 
          magnesium, strontium salt(1:1:2), dysprosium and europium-
          doped.
721.9513 Modified magnesium silicate polymer (generic).
721.9514 Ethyl silicate, reaction products with modified alkoxysilane 
          salt (generic).
721.9515 Aminofunctional alkoxy alkyl siloxane.
721.9516 Siloxanes and silicones, 3-[(2-aminoethyl) amino]propyl Me, di-
          Me, reaction products with polyethylene-polypropylene glycol 
          Bu glycidal ether.
721.9517 Siloxanes and silicones, de-Me, 3-[4-[[[3-(dimethyl amino) 
          propyl] amino]carbonyl]-2-oxo-1-pyrrolidinyl] propyl Me.
721.9518 Sinorhizobuim meliloti strain RMBPC-2.
721.9520 Methylated-para-rosaniline salt of a trisulfonated 
          triarylmethane dye (generic).
721.9526 Sodium perthiocarbonate.
721.9527 Bis(1,2,2,6,6-pentamethyl-4-piperidin-4-ol) ester of 
          cycloaliphatic spiroketal.
721.9530 Bis(2,2,6,6-tetra methyl piper idinyl) ester of cycloalkyl 
          spiroketal.
721.9535 1,4-Dioxa-7,9-dithia-8-stannacycloundecane-5,11-dione, 8,8-
          dioctyl-.
721.9538 Lithium salt of sulfophenyl azo phenyl azo disulfostilbene 
          (generic).
721.9540 Polysulfide mixture.
721.9545 Substituted phenyl azo substituted sulfocarbopolycle, sodium 
          salt.
721.9550 Sulfonamide.
721.9570 Halophenyl sulfonamide salt.
721.9572 Substituted alkyl sulfonamide (generic).
721.9573 Substituted perfluoroalkyl sulfonamide (generic).
721.9575 Chromate(3-), bis[3-[[5-(aminosulfonyl)-2-hydroxyphenyl]azo]-4-
          hydroxy-7-[[2-oxo-1-[(phenylamino)carbonyl] propyl]azo]-2-
          naphthalenesulfonato(3-)]-, trisodium (9CI).
721.9576 Chromate(3-), bis[7-[(aminohydroxyphenyl)azo]-3-[[5-
          (aminosulfonyl)-2-hydroxyphenyl]azo]-4-hydroxy-2-naphthalene-
          sulfonato (3-)]-, trisodium (9CI).
721.9577 Chromate(3-), bis[7-[(aminohydroxyphenyl)azo]-3-[[5-
          (aminosulfonyl)-2-hydroxyphenyl] azo]-4-hydroxy-2-naphthalene 
          sulfonato (3-)]-,-[[5-(aminosulfonyl) -2-hydroxyphenyl]azo]-4-
          hydroxy-7-[[2-hydroxy-1-[(phenylamino) carbonyl]-1-
          propenyl]azo]-2-naphthalenesulfonato(3-)]-, trisodium (9CI).
721.9580 Ethyl methanesulfonate.
721.9582 Certain perfluoroalkyl sulfonates.
721.9595 Benzenesulfonic acid, mono C-<INF>10-16</INF>-alkyl derivs., 
          compounds with 2-propen-1-amine and Alkyl benzene sulfonic 
          acids and alkyl sulfates, amine salts.
721.9597 Salt of a substituted sulfonated aryl azo compound (generic).
721.9620 Aromatic sulfonic acid compound with amine.
721.9630 Polyfluorosulfonic acid salt.
721.9635 Terpenes and terpenoids, limonene fraction, distn. residues, 
          distillates.
721.9640 Salt of an acrylic acid-acrylamide terpolymer (generic).
721.9650 Tetramethylammonium salts of alkylbenzenesulfonic acid.
721.9656 Thiaalkanethiol.
721.9657 Disubstituted thiadiazole.
721.9658 Thiadiazole derivative.
721.9659 Disubstituted thiadiazosulfone.
721.9660 Methylthiouracil.
721.9661 Diphenol tars (generic).
721.9662 Thieno[3,4-b]-1,4-dioxin, 2,3-dihydro- (9CI).
721.9663 Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), alpha, alpha'-[thiobis (1-oxo-3,1-
          propanediyl)]bis [omega-hydroxy-,bis (C<INF>11-15</INF> and 
          C<INF>11-15-isoalkyl</INF>) ethers.
721.9664 9H-Thioxanthen-9-one,2,4-diethyl.
721.9665 Organotin catalysts.
721.9668 Organotin lithium compound.
721.9670 Tetraaryltin (generic).

[[Page 165]]

721.9671 Triaryltin (generic).
721.9672 Amides, tall-oil fatty, N-[2-[2-hydroxyethyl)amino]ethyl], 
          reaction products with sulfur dioxide; fatty acids, tall-oil, 
          reaction products with 1-piperazineethanamine and sulfur 
          dioxide; fatty acids, tall-oil reaction products with sulfur 
          dioxide and triethylenetetramine.
721.9674 Sulfonated-copper phthalocyanine salt of a triarylmethane dye 
          (generic).
721.9675 Titanate [Ti<INF>6</INF> O<INF>13</INF> (2-)], di potas sium.
721.9680 Alkaline titania silica gel (generic name).
721.9685 Mixed trialkylamines (generic).
721.9700 Monosubstituted alkoxy amino tra zines (generic name).
721.9717 Azo monochloro triazine reactive dye.
721.9719 Tris carbamoyl triazine (generic).
721.9720 Certain disubstituted alkyl triazines.
721.9730 Certain 1,3,5-triazine-2-amine, 4-dimethylamino-6-substituted.
721.9740 Brominated triazine derivative.
721.9750 2-Chloro-4,6-bis(substituted)-1,3,5-triazine, dihydrochloride.
721.9790 Benzenesulfonic acid, 2,2'-(1,2-ethenediyl)bis[5-[[4-[bis(2-
          hydroxypropyl) amino]- 6-[(3-sulfophenyl)amino]-1,3,5-triazin-
          2-yl]amino]-, disodium salt, compd. with 2,2',2''-nitrilo-
          tris[ethanol] (1:2); Benzenesulfonic acid, 5-[[4-[bis(2-
          hydroxyethyl)amino]-6-[(3-sulfophenyl)amino]-1,3,5-triazin-2-
          yl]amino]-2-[2-[4-[[4-[bis(2-hydroxypropyl)amino]-6-[(3-
          sulfophenyl)amino]-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl]amino]-2-
          sulfophenyl]ethenyl]-, disodium salt, compd. with 2,2',2''-
          nitrilotris[ethanol] (1:2).
721.9795 Benzenesulfonic acid, 2,2'-(1,2-ethenediyl)bis[(4,6-dichloro-
          1,3,5-triazin-2-yl) amino]-, disodium salt, substituted with 
          dialkyl amines (generic).
721.9798 Benzenesulfonic acid, 2,2'-(1,2-ethenediyl)bis[5-[[4-
          substituted-6-substituted-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl]amino]-, sodium 
          salt (generic).
721.9800 1,3,5-Triazine, 2,4,6-trichloro-, polymer with piperazine, 
          reaction products with morpholine.
721.9820 Substituted triazole.
721.9825 Phenyl substituted triazolinones.
721.9830 1-Tridecyn-3-ol, 3-methyl.
721.9840 Tungstate (W12(OH)2O386-) hexasodium (9CI).
721.9850 2,4,8,10-Tetraoxa-3,9-diphosphaspiro[5.5]undecane, 3,9-
          bis[2,4,6-tris(1,1-dimethylethyl)phenoxy]-.
721.9892 1,3-Dimethyl-2-imidazolidinone.
721.9900 Urea, condensate with poly[oxy(methyl-1,2ethanediyl)]-[alpha]- 
          (2-aminomethylethyl)-[mu]-(2-amino ethylethoxy) (generic 
          name).
721.9920 Urea, (hexahydro-6-methyl-2-ox o py rim idinyl)-.
721.9925 Aminoethylethylene urea methacrylamide.
721.9928 Urea, tetaethyl-.
721.9929 Polyurea (generic).
721.9930 Urethane.
721.9952 Alkoxylated aliphatic diisocyanate allyl ether (generic).
721.9957 N-Nitroso-N-methylurethane.
721.9959 Polyurethane polymer (generic).
721.9965 Fatty acids, C<INF>10-13</INF> - branched, vinyl esters.
721.9969 3,6-Bis(dialkylamino) -9-[2-alkoxycarbonyl) phenyl]-xanthylium 
          salt (generic).
721.9970 o-Xylene compound (generic name).
721.9973 Zirconium dichlorides (generic).
721.10000 Certain polybrominated diphenylethers.
721.10001 2-Ethoxyethanol, 2-ethoxyethanol acetate, 2-methoxyethanol, 
          and 2-methoxyethanol acetate.
721.10002 2-Thiazolidinone.
721.10003 Manganese heterocyclic tetraamine complex (generic).
721.10004 2-Butenoic acid, 4,4'-[(dibutylstannylene)bis(oxy)]bis[4-oxo-, 
          (2Z,2'Z)-, di-C<INF>8-10</INF>-isoalkyl esters, C<INF>9</INF>-
          rich.
721.10005 2-Butenoic acid, 4,4'-[(dibutylstannylene)bis(oxy)]bis [4-oxo-
          , (2Z,2'Z)-, di-C<INF>9-11</INF>-isoalkyl esters, 
          C<INF>10</INF>-rich.
721.10006 Mixed metal oxide (generic).
721.10007 Alcohols, C<INF>12-14</INF>- secondary, ethoxylated 
          propoxylated.
721.10008 Manganese strontium oxide (MnSrO<INF>3</INF>).
721.10009 Manganese yttrium oxide (MnYO<INF>3</INF>).
721.10010 Barium manganese oxide (BaMnO<INF>3</INF>).
721.10011 Barium calcium manganese strontium oxide.
721.10012 Manganate (MnO<INF>2</INF><SUP>1-</SUP>), calcium (2:1).
721.10013 Manganese yttrium oxide (Mn<INF>2</INF>YO<INF>5</INF>).
721.10014 Halogenated naphthalic anhydride (generic).
721.10015 Halogenated benzimidazole (generic).
721.10016 Dibenzimidazothianaphthalene (generic).
721.10017 Amine terminated bisphenol A diglycidyl ether polymer 
          (generic).
721.10018 Calcium hydroxide oxide silicate 
          (Ca<INF>6</INF>(OH)<INF>2</INF>O<INF>2</INF>(Si<INF>2</INF>O<INF>5</INF>
          )<INF>3</INF>).
721.10019 Benzoic acid, 2-chloro-5-nitro-, 1,1-dimethyl-2-oxo-2-(2-
          propenyloxy) ethyl ester.
721.10020 Benzoic acid, 5-amino-2-chloro-, 1,1-dimethyl-2-oxo-2-(2-
          propenyloxy) ethyl ester.
721.10021 Magnesium potassium titanium oxide.
721.10022 Benzenamine, N-phenyl-, ar'-(C<INF>9</INF>-rich 
          C<INF>8-10</INF>-branched alkyl) derivs.
721.10023 Benzenamine, N-phenyl-, ar ar'-(C<INF>9</INF>-rich 
          C<INF>8-10</INF>-branched alkyl) derivs.

[[Page 166]]

721.10024 10H-Phenothiazine, ar-(C<INF>9</INF>-rich C<INF>8-10</INF>-
          branched alkyl) derivs.
721.10025 10H-Phenothiazine, ar, ar'-(C<INF>9</INF>-rich 
          C<INF>8-10</INF>-branched alkyl) derivs.
721.10026 Cashew, nutshell liq., ethoxylated.
721.10027 Ethoxylated alkylsulfate, substituted alkylamine salt 
          (generic).
721.10028 Disubstituted benzene metal salts (generic).
721.10029 Isocyanate compound, modified with methoxysilane (generic).
721.10030 Pyrimido[5,4-g]pteridine-2,4,6,8-tetramine, 4-
          methylbenzenesulfonate, base-hydrolyzed.
721.10031 Lithium potassium titanium oxide.
721.10032 Acrylic acid, polymer with substituted acrylamides (generic).
721.10033 Zinc, [ethanedioato(2-)-. kappa. O\1\, . kappa. O\2\]-.
721.10034 Substituted pyridine coupled with diazotized substituted 
          nitrobenzonitrile, diazotized substituted benzenamine and 
          substituted pyridinecarbonitrile (generic).
721.10035 Alkylbenzene sulfonate (generic).
721.10036 Acetaldehyde based polymer (generic).
721.10037 Complex halogenated salt of 
          tris(ethylatedaminocarbocyclic)methane (generic).
721.10038 Trimellitic anhydride, polymer with substituted glycol, alkyl 
          phenols and ethoxylated nonylphenol (generic).
721.10039 Diethoxybenzenamine derivative, diazotized, coupled with 
          aminonaphthalenesulfonic acid derivative, ammonium salt 
          (generic).
721.10040 Substituted acridine naphtha substituted benzamide (generic).
721.10041 1-Butanone, 2-(dimethylamino)-2-[(4-methylphenyl)methyl]-1-[4-
          (4-morpholinyl)phenyl]-.
721.10042 2-Propanol, 1-[bis(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]-.
721.10043 Dineopentyl-4-substituted phthalate (generic).
721.10044 Metal oxide, modified with alkyl and vinyl terminated 
          polysiloxanes (generic).
721.10045 Diazotized substituted heteromonocycle coupled with 
          naphthalene sulfonic acid derivative, nickel complex, alkaline 
          salt (generic).
721.10046 Polyaromatic amine phosphate (generic).
721.10047 Polyphosphoric acids, compds. with piperazine.
721.10048 Substituted anthraquinone (generic).
721.10049 Phenol, 4,4'- cyclohexylidene bis[2-methyl-.
721.10050 Disubstituted-N'- hydroxy-benzenecarboximidamide (generic).
721.10051 Spiro naphthoxazine (generic).
721.10052 Aminoalkyl substituted alkylphenol (generic).
721.10053 Alkyl silane methacrylate (generic).
721.10054 Phenol, polymer with formaldehyde, 3-[(2-
          aminocyclohexyl)amino]-2-hydroxypropyl ethers.
721.10055 1-Propanaminium, 3-amino-N-(carboxymethyl)-N,N-dimethyl-, N-
          soya acyl derivs., inner salts.
721.10056 Benzenemethanaminium, N-(3-aminopropyl)-N,N-dimethyl-, N-soya 
          acyl derivs., chlorides.
721.10057 Dodecanedioic acid, 1, 12-dihydrazide.
721.10058 Reaction product of alkylphenol, aromatic cyclicamine, alkyl 
          diglycidyl dibenzene, and formaldehyde (generic).
721.10059 Reaction product of alkylphenyl glycidyl ether, 
          polyalkylenepolyamine, and alkyl diglycidyl dibenzene 
          (generic).
721.10060 Reaction product of alkylphenyl glycidyl ether, 
          polyalkylenepolyamine, alkyl diglycidyl dibenzene, and 
          polyalkylcyclicdiamine (generic).
721.10061 Pentane, 1,1,1,2,2,3,4,5,5,5-decafluoro-3-methoxy-4-
          (trifluoromethyl)-.
721.10062 2,5-Furandione, polymer with oxybis[propanol], benzoate.
721.10063 Halo substituted hydroxy nitrophenyl amide (generic).
721.10064 2-Propenoic acid, 2-[2-(ethenyloxy)ethoxy]ethyl ester.
721.10065 1-Tetradecanesulfonic acid, (dimethylphenyl)-.
721.10066 1-Hexanesulfonic acid, (dimethylphenyl)-.
721.10067 Ether amine phosphonate salt (generic).
721.10068 Elemental mercury.
721.10069 Ether amine phosphonate (generic).
721.10070 1,3-Butanediol, 3-methyl-.
721.10071 9H-Thioxanthenium, 10-[1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl-2-(1-methylethyl)-
          9-oxo-, hexafluorophosphate (1-) (1:1).
721.10072 Benzene, 1,1'-methylenebis[4-isocyanato-, polymer with 
          benzenedicarboxylic acid, butyl dialkyl ester, 
          poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)], .alpha.-hydro-.omega.-
          hydroxy-, oxirane, alkyl-, polymer with oxirane, ether with 
          propanepolyol and Sartomer's HLBH P-3000 and Lexorez 1180 
          (generic).
721.10073 Modified alkyl acrylamide (generic).
721.10074 Acetic acid, 2-chloro-, 1-(3,3-dimethylcyclohexyl)ethyl ester.
721.10075 Carbon black, 4-[[2-(Sulfooxy) ethyl]substituted] phenyl- 
          modified, sodium salts (generic).
721.10076 Substituted benzenediamine (generic).
721.10077 3H-1,2,4-Triazol-3-one, 1,2-dihydro-.
721.10078 Butanamide, 2-[(2-methoxy-4-nitrophenyl)azo]-N-(2-
          methoxyphenyl)-3-oxo-, 4-[(17-substituted-3,6,9,12,15-
          pentaazaheptadec-1-

[[Page 167]]

          yl)substituted]phenyl derivs., hydrochlorides (generic).
721.10079 Quino[2,3-b]acridine-7, 14-dione, 5,12-dihydro-2,9-dimethyl-, 
          4-[(17-substituted-3,6,9,12,15-pentaazaheptadec-1-
          yl)substituted]phenyl derivs., hydrochlorides (generic).
721.10080 Carbon black, 4-[(17-substituted-3,6,9,12,15-pentaazaheptadec-
          1-yl) substituted] phenyl-modified, hydrochlorides (generic).
721.10081 Aromatic urethane acrylate oligomer (generic).
721.10082 Amine modified monomer acrylate (generic).
721.10083 Copper, [29H, 31H-phthalocyaninato (2-)-N29, N30, N31, N32]-, 
          4-[(17-substituted-3,6,9,12,15- pentaazaheptadec-1-yl) 
          substituted] phenyl derivs., hydrochlorides (generic).
721.10084 Modified thionocarbamate (generic).
721.10085 Substituted polyaryl sulfonium polyhalide phosphate salt 
          (generic).
721.10086 Ethane, 2-(difluoromethoxy)-1,1,1-trifluoro-.
721.10087 Substituted alkyl phosphine oxide (generic).
721.10088 Thiophene, 2,5-dibromo-3-hexyl-.
721.10089 Modified salicylic acid, zirconium complex (generic).
721.10090 Tertiary amine salt of glycol succinate (generic).
721.10091 2(1H)-Pyrimidinone, tetrahydro-1,3-dimethyl-.
721.10092 Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-sulfo-.omega.-[[1-[(2-
          propen-1-yloxy)methyl]undecyl]oxy]-, ammonium salt (1:1); 
          Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-sulfo-.omega.-[[1-[(2-
          propen-1-yloxy)methyl]tridecyl]oxy]-, ammonium salt (1:1).
721.10093 Alkylamides, ethoxylated (generic).
721.10094 Decene, branched and linear.
721.10095 Oxetane, 3,3'-[oxybis(methylene)] bis[3-ethyl-.
721.10096 Benzene, 1,4-bis (methoxymethyl)-.
721.10097 Disubstituted benzenesulfonic acid, alkali metal salt 
          (generic).
721.10098 Disubstituted benzoic acid, alkali metal salt (generic).
721.10099 Dialkyl dimethyl ammonium carbonate (generic).
721.10100 Dialkyl dimethyl ammonium carbonate (2:1) (generic).
721.10101 Copolymer of alkyl acrylate and ethyleneglycol dimethacrylate 
          (generic).
721.10102 Diphosphoric acid, compd. with piperazine (1:1).
721.10103 Naphtha (Fischer-Tropsch), C4-11-alkane, branched and linear.
721.10104 Halophosphate mixed metal complex (generic).
721.10105 Polyfluoroalkylether (generic).
721.10106 Silica, [(ethenylsilylidyne)tris(oxy)] - modified.
721.10107 Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, [amino-hydroxy-[(substituted)azo-
          sulfo-naphthaleneyl]azo]-hydroxy-[(methoxy-sulfophenyl)azo], 
          metal salt (generic).
721.10108 Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, hydrozy-[[[(hydroxyl-disulfo-
          naphthaleneyl)azo]-alkyl(C = 1-5)-(sulfoalkoxy)cyclic]azo]-
          substituted azo-, metal salt (generic).
721.10109 Hexanoic acid, 2-ethyl-, mixed triesters with benzoic acid and 
          trimethylolpropane.
721.10110 Hexanoic acid, 2-ethyl-, mixed diesters with benzoic acid and 
          neopentlyl glycol.
721.10111 Hexanoic acid, 2-ethyl-, mixed diesters with benzoic acid and 
          diethylene glycol.
721.10112 Ethanone, 2-chloro-1-(1-chlorocyclopropyl)-.
721.10113 Thioether epoxy (generic).
721.10114 Polyhydroxyaminoether salts (generic).
721.10115 1-Hexadecanaminium, N,N-dibutyl-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-, bromide 
          (1:1).
721.10116 Blocked polymeric isocyanate (generic).
721.10117 Heteromonocyclo-beta-(2,4-dichlorophenyl) -1-propanol 
          (generic).
721.10118 Substituted aryl acetonitrile (generic).
721.10119 Siloxane modified silica nanoparticles (generic).
721.10120 Siloxane modified alumina nanoparticles (generic).
721.10121 Poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)], .alpha.-methyl-.omega.-(4-
          nonylphenoxy)-, branched.
721.10122 2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 1,1'-[2-ethyl-2-[[(2-methyl-1-
          oxo-2-propen-1-yl)oxy]methyl]- 1,3-propanediyl] ester, polymer 
          with 1,3-butadiene, ethenylbenzene and 2-hydroxyethyl 2-
          methyl-2-propenoate.
721.10123 [1,2,4-Triazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidin-2-amine, 5,7-dimethoxy-].
721.10124 Brominated polyaromatic compound (generic).
721.10125 Alkenedioic acid, dialkyl ester, reaction products with 
          polyaminocarbomonocycle and alkenoic acid alkyl ester 
          (generic).
721.10126 Alkyl amino substituted triazine amino substituted 
          benezenesulfonic acid reaction product with 
          naphthalenesulfonato azo substituted phenyl azo substituted 
          benzenesulfonic acid copper compound (generic).
721.10127 Alkenyl dimethyl betaine (generic).
721.10128 Modified imidazole (generic).
721.10129 Alkylamine ethoxylated (generic).
721.10130 Quino[2,3-b]acridine-7,14-dione, 5,12-dihydro-ar-[4-[[2-
          (sulfooxy)ethyl]substituted]phenyl]-, monosodium salt 
          (generic).
721.10131 Isononanamide, N-(2-ethylhexyl)-.

[[Page 168]]

721.10132 Phosphoramidic acid, carbomonocyclic-, diphenylester 
          (generic).
721.10133 2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl, 2-hydroxyethyl ester, homopolymer.
721.10134 Formaldehyde, polymer with dialkylphenylamine, dialkylphenol 
          and trimethylhexanediamine (generic).
721.10135 Phosphinic acid, P,P-diethyl-, zinc salt (2:1).
721.10136 2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-hydroxyethyl ester, reaction 
          products with hexakis(alkoxyalkyl)melamine (generic).
721.10137 Halogenated phenoxy aromatic (generic).
721.10138 3-Isoxazolecarboxylic acid, 4,5-dihydro-5,5-diphenyl-, ethyl 
          ester.
721.10139 Ethanone, 1-(1-chlorocyclopropyl)-.
721.10140 Phosphoric acid, tin (2 + ) salt (2:3).
721.10141 Oils, ginger, zingiber purpureum.
721.10142 Oxabicycloalkane carboxylic acid alkanediyl ester (generic).
721.10143 Amines, bis (C11-14-branched and linear alkyl).
721.10144 Modified thiocarbamate (generic).
721.10145 Modified reaction products of alkyl alcohol, halogenated 
          alkane, substituted epoxide, and amino compound (generic).
721.10146 Partially fluorinated condensation polymer (generic).
721.10147 Acrylate derivative of alkoxysilylalkane ester and mixed metal 
          oxides (generic).
721.10148 Acryloxy alkanoic alkane derivative with mixed metal oxides 
          (generic).
721.10149 Carbon black, (3-methylphenyl)-modified, substituted 
          (generic).
721.10150 Carbon black, (4-methylphenyl)-modified, substituted 
          (generic).
721.10151 Modified styrene, divinylbenzene polymer (generic).
721.10152 Oxirane, substituted silylmethyl-, hydrolysis products with 
          alkanol zirconium(4 + ) salt and silica, acetates (generic).
721.10153 Modified methyl methacrylate, 2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate 
          polymer (generic).
721.10154 Quaternary ammonium compounds, dicoco alkyldimethyl, 
          chlorides, reaction products with silica.
721.10155 Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic).
721.10156 Single-walled carbon nanotubes (generic).
721.10157 Benzeneethanol,halo-,halocycloalkyl-,hydrazinealkyl- 
          (generic).
721.10158 2-Pentanone, 3,5-dichloro-.
721.10159 1-Docosanamine, N,N-dimethyl-.
721.10160 Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-[(13Z)-1-oxo-13-docosen-1-
          yl]-.omega.-[[(13Z)-1-oxo-13-docosen-1-yl]oxy]-.
721.10161 Substituted silyl methacrylate (generic).
721.10162 1,3 Dioxolane-4-butanol, 2-ethenyl-.
721.10163 Chloro fluoro alkane (generic).
721.10164 Benzenecarboximidamide, N-hydroxy-4-nitro-.
721.10165 Carbonotrithioic acid, bis(phenylmethyl) ester.
721.10166 1,3-Cyclohexanedione, 2-[2-chloro-4-(methylsulfonyl)-3-
          [(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)methyl]benzoyl]-, ion(1-), potassium 
          salt (1:1).
721.10167 Tetrafluoro nitrotoluene (generic).
721.10168 Cesium tungsten oxide.
721.10169 Cyclopentane, methoxy-.
721.10170 Polyoxyethylene polyalkylarylphenylether sulfate ammonium salt 
          (generic).
721.10171 1H-benz(e)indolium, 1,1,2,3-tetramethyl-, 4-
          methylbenzenesulfonic acid (1:1).
721.10172 Alkylamide derivative (generic).
721.10173 Silanamine,1,1,1-triethoxy-N,N-diethyl-.
721.10174 1-Propanaminium, 3-amino-N-(carboxymethyl)-N,N-dimethyl-, N-
          peanut-oil acyl derivs., inner salts.
721.10175 1-Propanaminium, N-(3-aminopropyl)-2-hydroxy-N,N-dimethyl-3-
          sulfo-, N-(C12-18 and C18-unsatd. acyl) derivs., inner salts.
721.10176 Amides, peanut-oil, N-[3-(dimethylamino)propyl].
721.10177 Phosphoric acid, yttrium(3 + ) salt (1:1).
721.10178 Distillates (Fischer-Tropsch), hydroisomerized middle, C10-13-
          branched alkane fraction.
721.10179 Copolymers of phenol and aromatic hydocarbon (generic).
721.10180 Trifunctional acrylic ester (generic).
721.10181 Halide salt of an alkylamine (generic).
721.10182 1-Propene, 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro-.
721.10183 Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic).
721.10184 Aliphatic triamine (generic).
721.10185 1,2-Propanediol, 3-(diethylamino)-, polymers with 5-
          isocyanato-1- (isocyanatomethyl)-1,3,3-trimethylcyclohexane, 
          propylene glycol and reduced Me esters of reduced polymd. 
          oxidized tetrafluoroethylene, 2-ethyl-1-hexanol-blocked, 
          acetates (salts).
721.10186 Ethylhexyl oxetane (generic).
721.10187 4-Morpholinepropanamine, N-(1,3-dimethylbutylidene)-.
721.10188 Fatty acids, tall-oil, reaction products with 4-methyl-2-
          pentanone and aliphatic polyamine (generic).
721.10189 Fatty acids, tall-oil, reaction products with (butoxymethyl) 
          oxirane formaldehyde-phenol polymer glycidyl ether, 
          morpholinepropanamine, propylene glycol diamine and aliphatic 
          polyamine, N-(1,3 -dimethylbutylidene) derivs (generic).

[[Page 169]]

721.10190 Formaldehyde, polymer with aliphatic diamine and phenol, 
          reaction products with 4-methyl-2-pentanone (generic).
721.10191 Amides, coco, N-[3-(dibutylamino)propyl].
721.10192 Amides, coco, N-[3-(dibutylamino)propyl], acrylates.
721.10193 1-Butanaminium, N-(3-aminopropyl)-N-butyl-N-(2-carboxyethyl)-, 
          N-coco acyl derivs., inner salts.
721.10194 Dialkylcocoamidoalkylpropionate (generic).
721.10195 Dialkylcornoilamidoalkylamine (generic).
721.10196 Dialkylcornoilamidoacrylate (generic).
721.10197 Dialkycornoilamidoalkylbetaine (generic).
721.10198 Dialkylcornoilamidopropionate (generic).
721.10199 Substituted aliphatic amine (generic).
721.10200 Benzenacetonitrile, cyclohexylidene-alkyl substituted 
          (generic).
721.10201 Cobalt lithium manganese nickel oxide.
721.10202 Benzoic acid, 4-chloro-2- [(substituted)azo]-, strontium salt 
          (1:1) (generic).
721.10203 Phosphonium, tetrabutyl-, hydroxide (1:1).
721.10204 Aryloxyacrylate (generic).
721.10205 Formaldehyde, polymer with 1,3-benzenediol and 1,1'-
          methylenebis[isocyanatobenzene].
721.10206 4-Cyclohexene-1,2-dicarboxylic acid, 1,2-bis(2-oxiranylmethyl) 
          ester.
721.10207 1,3-Cyclohexanedimethanamine, N1,N3-bis(2-methylpropylidene)-.
721.10208 Amines, di-C11-14-isoalkyl, C13-rich.
721.10209 Epoxy terminated, hydrolyzed trialkoxysilane and glycidyl 
          ether of phenol-formaldehyde resin (generic).
721.10210 Soybean oil, epoxidized, reaction products with 
          diethanolamine.
721.10211 Octadecanoic acid, reaction products with diethylenetriamine 
          and urea, acetates.
721.10212 1,2-Ethanediol, reaction products with epichlorohydrin.
721.10213 Polyether polyester copolymer phosphate (generic).
721.10214 Poly(oxyalkylenediyl),.alpha.-substituted 
          carbomonocycle-.omega.-substituted carbomonocycle (generic).
721.10215 Benzenepropanol, .beta.-methyl-.
721.10216 2-Propenoic acid, 3-(5,5,6-trimethylbicyclo[2.2.1]hept-2-
          yl)cyclohexyl ester].
721.10217 Branched and linear alcohols (generic).
721.10218 2-Propenoic acid, 2-mehtyl-, C12-15-branched and linear alkyl 
          esters, telomers with alkyl 2-[[(alkylthio)thioxomethyl]thio]-
          2-alkanoate, aminoalkyl methacrylate and alkyl methacrylate, 
          tert-Bu 2-ethylhexanoperoxoate-initiated (generic).
721.10219 Butanamide,N-[substituted phenyl]-
          [(alkoxynitrophenyl)diazenyl]-3-oxo- (generic).
721.10220 Phosphoric acid, polymer with cycloaliphatic diglycidyl ether, 
          alkylethers (generic).
721.10221 3-Nonen-1-ol, 1-acetate, (3Z)-.
721.10222 Styrenyl surface treated manganese ferrite (generic).
721.10223 Styrenyl surface treated manganese ferrite with acrylic ester 
          polymer (generic).
721.10224 Diglycidylaniline (generic).
721.10225 Quino[2,3-b] acridine-7,14-dione, 2,9-dichloro-5,12-dihydro 
          [4-[[2-(sulfooxy) ethyl] substituted] phenyl]-, sodium salt 
          (1:1) (generic).
721.10226 Di-n-pentyl phthalate (DnPP).
721.10227 Alkanes, C[bdi1][bdi2]<INF>-</INF>[bdi1][bdi3], chloro (CAS 
          No. 71011-12-6).
721.10229 Ethylene glycol ethers.
721.10230 Rutile, tin zinc, calcium doped.
721.10231 Rutile, tin zinc, sodium-doped.
721.10232 N-arylamino-phenol-formaldehyde condensate (generic)
721.10233 Linear alkyl epoxide (generic).
721.10234 Hydroxy-chloro-cyclopropyl-heteromonocyclic carboxylic acid 
          (generic).
721.10235 Phenol, 2-ethoxy-4-(ethoxymethyl)-.
721.10236 1-Propanamine, 3-[2-(2-methoxyethoxy)ethoxy]-.
721.10237 Formaldehyde, polymers with acetone-phenol reaction products 
          and phenol, sodium salts.
721.10238 Formaldehyde, polymers with acetone-phenol reaction products 
          and phenol, potassium sodium salts.
721.10239 Trivalent chromium complexes of a substituted beta-naphthol 
          amine azo dye (generic).
721.10240 Olefinic carbocycle, reaction products with alkoxysilane 
          (generic).
721.10241 Olefinic carbocycle, reaction products with alkoxysilane, 
          sulfurized (generic).
721.10242 Olefinic carbocycle, reaction products with alkoxysilane, 
          polysulfurized (generic).
721.10243 Phosphonic acid, P-[2-[bis(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]ethyl]-, 
          bis(2-chloroethyl) ester.
721.10244 Phosphonic acid, P-[2-[bis(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]ethyl]-, 2-
          [bis(2- chloroethoxy)phosphinyl]ethyl 2-chloroethyl ester.
721.10245 Branched and linear fatty alcohol ethoxylate (generic).
721.10246 Alkylpolyhydroxy polymer (generic).

[[Page 170]]

721.10247 Bis-phenoxyethanol fluorene diacrylate (generic).
721.10248 Aromatic bromide (generic).
721.10249 Disubstituted phenol (generic).
721.10250 Zirconium lysine complex (generic).
721.10251 Fatty acids, reaction products with alkanolamine (generic).
721.10252 Thiosulfuric acid (H<INF>2</INF>S<INF>2</INF>O<INF>3</INF>), 
          manganese(2 + ) salt (1:1).
721.10253 Butanedioic acid, 2-methylene-, polymer with 2,5 furanedione, 
          copper(2 + ) manganese(2 + ) sodium zinc salt, hydrogen 
          peroxide-initiated.
721.10254 Substituted acrylamide (generic).
721.10255 Vinyl carboxylic acid ester (generic).
721.10256 Benzoic acid, 4-(dimethylamino)-, 1,1'-[(methylimino)di-2,1-
          ethanediyl] ester.
721.10257 Butyl aromatic bisurea (generic).
721.10258 Aromatic hydrocarbon (generic).
721.10259 Halogenated aromatic hydrocarbon (generic).
721.10260 Benzene, 1,3-bis(1-chloro-1-methylethyl)-.
721.10261 Oxime, di-Me silane (generic).
721.10262 Oxime, Me vinyl silane (generic).
721.10263 Phenol, 4-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-2-nitro-.
721.10264 Polycarbocyclic methacrylate (generic).
721.10265 Ethane, 2-bromo-1, 1-difluoro-.
721.10266 Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic) (P-08-733 and P-08-
          734).
721.10267 [5,6]Fullerene-C60-Ih.
721.10268 [5,6]Fullerene-C70-D5h(6).
721.10269 [5,6]Fullerene-C84-D2.
721.10270 [5,6]Fullerene-C84-D2d.
721.10271 3'H-Cyclopropa[1,9][5,6]fullerene-C60-Ih-3'-butanoic acid, 3'-
          phenyl-, methyl ester.
721.10272 3'H-Cyclopropa[8,25][5,6]fullerene-C70-D5h(6)-3'-butanoic 
          acid, 3'-phenyl-,methyl ester.
721.10273 3'H-Cyclopropa[7,22][5,6]fullerene-C70-D5h(6)-3'-butanoic 
          acid, 3'-phenyl-, methyl ester.
721.10274 Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic) (P-09-188).
721.10275 Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic) (P-09-0417).
721.10276 Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic) (P-10-39).
721.10277 Single-walled and multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic) (P-
          10-40).
721.10278 4,4'-Bipyridinium, 1-(phosphonoalkyl)-1'-substituted-, salt 
          with anion (1:2) (generic).
721.10279 Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic) (P-10-246).
721.10280 Benzene ethenyl-, polymer with 1,3-butadiene, brominated.
721.10281 Hexabromocyclododecane and 1,2,5,6,9,10-
          hexabromocyclododecane.
721.10282 Ethyleneamine polyphosphates (generic).
721.10283 Poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)], .alpha.-sulfo-.omega.-
          hydroxy-, C12-13-branched and linear alkyl ethers, sodium 
          salts.
721.10284 Poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)], .alpha.-sulfo-.omega.-
          hydroxy-, C14-15-branched and linear alkyl ethers, sodium 
          salts.
721.10285 Formaldehyde, polymer with 4-(1,1-dimethylethyl)phenol, 
          reaction products with 1-piperazineethanamine.
721.10286 Formaldehyde, polymer with .alpha.-(2-
          aminomethylethyl)-.omega.-(2-
          aminomethylethoxy)poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)] and 4-(1,1-
          dimethylethyl)phenol.
721.10287 Infused carbon nanostructures (generic).
721.10288 Cyclohexane, oxidized, by-products from, distn. residues.
721.10289 Hexanedioic acid polymer with aliphatic polyol dihydrogen 
          phosphate aromatic ester (generic).
721.10290 Alkenoyloxy arylphenone (generic).
721.10292 Silicate (2-), hexafluoro-, cesium (1:2).
721.10293 Benzoic acid, 4-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-, hydrazide.
721.10294 Cyclohexanol, 2,6-bis(1,1-dimethylethyl)-4-methyl-.
721.10295 IPDI modified isophthalic acid, neopentyl glycol and adipic 
          acid (generic).
721.10296 1,3-Benzenediol, 4-[1-[[3-(lH-imidazol-1-yl)propyl]imino] 
          ethyl]-.
721.10297 Tin, C16-18 and C18-unsatd. fatty acids castor-oil fatty acids 
          complexes.
721.10298 MDI terminated polyester polyurethane polymer (generic).
721.10299 Polymeric MDI based polyurethanes (generic).
721.10300 Benzeneacetic acid, .alpha.-chloro-.alpha.-phenyl-, ethyl 
          ester.
721.10301 Reaction products of fatty alcohols, (aminoethylaminopropyl) 
          dialkoxymethylsilane, glycidol, and hydroxy-terminated 
          polydimethylsiloxane (generic).
721.10302 Zinc ammonium phosphate (generic).
721.10303 Polyether modified polysiloxane, acrylated (generic).
721.10304 Functionalized polymethine (generic).
721.10305 Modified cyclohexane esters (generic).
721.10306 Substituted phenylepoxide (generic).
721.10307 Acrylate resin (generic).
721.10308 Ethoxylated, propoxylated diamine diaryl substituted 
          phenylmethane ester with alkenylsuccinate, dialkylethanolamine 
          salt (generic).
721.10313 Fatty acids, C16-18 and C18-unsatd., Me esters, epoxidized.

[[Page 171]]

721.10314 Dialkyl dithiocarbamate esters (generic).
721.10315 1,5-Dioxa-9-azaspiro[5.5]undecane, 3,3,8,8,10,10-hexamethyl-9-
          [1-[4-(2-oxiranylmethoxy)phenyl]ethoxy]-.
721.10316 Dicyclopentadiene polymer with maleic anhydride and alkyl 
          alcohols (generic).
721.10317 Alkyl phosphate derivative (generic).
721.10318 Mannich bases (generic).
721.10319 Alkylamides, ethoxylated (generic).
721.10320 Fatty acid amide (generic).
721.10321 Bis[phenyl, 2H-1,3-benzoxazine]derivative (generic).
721.10322 Metallic diol (generic).
721.10323 Glycerol fatty acid ester (generic).
721.10324 Thionocarbamate derivative (generic).
721.10325 Cyclosilazanes, di-Me, Me hydrogen, polymers with di-Me, Me 
          hydrogen silazanes, reaction products with 3-(triethoxysilyl)-
          1-propanamine.
721.10326 2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, methyl ester, polymer with butyl 
          2-propenoate, ethyl 2-propenoate, zinc 2-methyl-2-propenoate 
          (1:2) and zinc 2-propenoate (1:2), 2,2'-(1,2-
          diazenediyl)bis[2-methylbutanenitrile]- and 2,2'-(1,2-
          diazenediyl)bis[2-methylpropanenitrile]-initiated.
721.10327 Salt of mixed fatty amidoamines and polyethylenepolyamines 
          (generic).
721.10328 Salt of polyalkylenepolyamine derivative (generic).
721.10329 Salt of mixed fatty amidoamines (generic).
721.10330 Pyrazolone derivative (generic).
721.10331 Aromatic isocyanate methacrylate blocked (generic).
721.10332 Lithium metal phosphate (generic).
721.10333 Substituted benzamine thio-ether (generic).
721.10334 Ethanol, 2,2'-[(3-[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]pentyl]imino]bis-].
721.10335 1-Pentanamine, 3-[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]-.
721.10336 Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-(1-oxo-2-propen-1-
          yl)-.omega.-([1,1'-biphenyl]-2-yloxy)-.
721.10337 Copper, iodotris(triphenylphosphine)-, (T-4)-.
721.10338 2-Propenoic acid, 1,1'-(1,9-nonanediyl) ester.
721.10339 Adipic acid, substituted propane, alkyldiol, acrylate 
          (generic).
721.10340 Potassium zinc fluoride (KZnF<INF>3</INF>).
721.10341 Amino alkyl organoborane (generic).
721.10342 Quaternary ammonium compounds, fatty alkyl dialkyl hydroxide 
          (generic).
721.10343 Alkylated aryloxyaniline thiourea (generic).
721.10344 Alkylated aromatic isothiocyanate (generic).
721.10345 1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, 1,2-bis(methylcyclohexyl) ester.
721.10346 3H-Indolium, 2-[2-[2-chloro-3-[2-(1,3-dihydro-3,3-dimethyl-1-
          propyl-2H-indol-2-ylidene)ethylidene]-1-cyclohexen-1-
          yl]ethenyl]-3,3-dimethyl-1-propyl-, iodide (1:1).
721.10347 Bicyclo[2.2.1] heptanedimethanamine, N,N'-bis(1,2-
          dimethylpropylidene)-.
721.10348 Aspartic acid, N,N'-(iminodi-alkanediyl)bis, tetraalkane 
          esters (generic).
721.10349 1,4-Benzenediamine, N'-(alkyl)-N-[4-[(alkyl)amino]phenyl]-N-
          phenyl- (generic).
721.10350 Amines, C11-14-branched and linear alkyl.
721.10351 Carbomonocycle, bis[(4-methylphenoxy)methyl]- (generic).
721.10352 Dimethyl terephthalate, polymer with alkyl diol and 
          substituted benzoates (generic).
721.10353 Organosulfide (generic).
721.10354 1,1'-Biphenyl, 3,3',4,4'-tetramethyl-.
721.10355 Poly[oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-(1-oxododecyl)-.omega.-[3-
          triethoxysilyl)propoxy]-.
721.10356 Zinc, bis[3-(acetyl-.kappa.O)-6-methyl-2H-pyran-2,4(3H)-
          dionato-.kappa.O4]diaqua-.
721.10357 Iron, citrate phosphate potassium complexes.
721.10358 Formaldehyde reaction products with aryl amine (generic).
721.10359 Cardanol-based alkyl phosphate (generic).
721.10360 1-Substituted propane, 3-(triethoxysilyl)-, reaction products 
          with polyethylene glycol mono-(branched tridecyl) ether 
          (generic).
721.10361 Anthraquinonedicarboximide, diamino-N-alkyl- (generic).
721.10362 Oils, callitropsis nootkatensis.
721.10363 Alkenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-oxiranylmethyl ester, reaction 
          products with 4,4' -methylenebis (cyclohexanamine) (generic).
721.10364 Halogenated aromatic amine (generic).
721.10365 Butanoic acid, 3-mercapto-2-methyl-, ethyl ester.
721.10366 Benzene, 4-bromo-1,2-dimethyl-.
721.10367 Hydroxy-aryl, polymer with substituted benzene, cyanate 
          (generic).
721.10368 Triphenodioxazine derivatives (generic).
721.10369 Carbonic acid, diphenyl ester, polymer with diphenyl P-
          methylphosphonate and 4,4'-(1-methylethylidene) bis[phenol].
721.10370 Phosphonic acid, p-octyl-, lanthanum (3 + ) salt (2:1).
721.10371 Butanoic acid, 3-mercapto-,1,1'-[2-(hydroxymethyl)-2-
          (substituted-1-

[[Page 172]]

          oxoalkoxy)methyl)-1,3-propanediyl] ester (generic).
721.10372 Butanoic acid, 3-mercapto-,1,1'-[2,2-bis[(substituted-1-
          oxoalkoxy)methyl]-1,3-propanediyl] ester (generic).
721.10373 1H-Imidazole, 1-(1-methylethyl)-.
721.10374 Silane, (3-chloropropoxy)dimethyl(1-methylethyl)-.
721.10375 Hydroxypropyl methacrylate, reaction products with propylene 
          oxide and ethylene oxide, copolymer with N-vinyl caprolactam 
          (generic).
721.10376 Alkyltin halide (generic).
721.10377 1,2-Cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, benzyl C8-10-isoalkyl 
          esters, C9-rich.
721.10378 1,2-Cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, benzyl nonyl ester, branched 
          and linear.
721.10379 Propanoic acid, 3-(dodecylthio)-, 2-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-4-[[5-
          (1,1-dimethylethyl)-4-hydroxy-2-methylphenyl]thio]-5-
          methylphenyl ester.
721.10380 Benzoic acid, 3-amino-2-mercapto-.
721.10381 Cyclic carboxylic acid, polymer with dihydroxy dialkyl ether, 
          hydroxy substituted alkane and carboxylic acid anhydride, 
          methacrylate terminated.
721.10382 Diphosphoric acid, calcium salt (1:1).
721.10383 Urea, N,N'-(methyl-1,3-phenylene)bis[N',N'-bis[3-
          polyalkyleneamino]-, compd. with formaldehyde polymer with 
          phenol (generic).
721.10384 Substituted alkanolamine phenol (generic).
721.10385 Phenoxy alkyl ether (generic).
721.10386 Substituted phenol (generic).
721.10387 Substituted bis-phenol (generic).
721.10388 Bisphospite nickel cyanoalkyl complex (generic).
721.10389 Styrene, copolymer with acrylic acid, salt with alkoxylated 
          alkenylamine (generic).
721.10390 Acetoacetanilide reaction product with multifunctional 
          acrylate (generic).
721.10391 Copper gallium indium selenide.
721.10392 Halo substituted sulfamidylbenzyluracil (generic).
721.10393 Sodium bromide MDA complex (generic).
721.10394 Copolymer of anhydride, a diol and a disubstituted diol 
          (generic).
721.10395 Fatty acids, C14-18 and C16-18 unsatd., polymers with adipic 
          acid and triethanolamine, di-Me sulfate-quaternized.
721.10396 Dimethyl siloxy-polyfluoro methyl siloxy-poly(oxyalkylenediyl) 
          methyl siloxy copolymer (generic).
721.10397 Alkyl acrylate-polyfluoro methacrylate-poly(oxyalkylenediyl)-
          methacrylates (generic).
721.10398 Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl),. alpha., -monoalkyl ethers-.omega.-
          mono (hydrogen maleate)- (generic).
721.10399 Benzoic acid azo-substituted pyridine (generic).
721.10400 Oxirane, 2-ethyl-, polymer with oxirane, mono-C12-14-sec-alkyl 
          ethers.
721.10401 Oxirane, 2-ethyl-, polymer with oxirane, mono-C11-15-sec-alkyl 
          ethers.
721.10408 Poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)], .alpha.-[2-[[2,2-dimethyl-3-
          [(1-oxododecyl) oxy]propylidene] amino] methylethyl]-.omega.-
          [2-[[2,2-dimethyl-3-[(1-oxododecyl)oxy]propylidene] 
          amino]methylethoxy]-.
721.10409 Poly(oxyalkylenediyl), .alpha.-[[[methyl-3- 
          [[[(polyfluoroalkyl)oxy]carbonyl]amino] 
          phenyl]amino]carbonyl]-.omega.-methoxy-(generic).
721.10410 Polyether ester acid compound with a polyamine amide (generic) 
          (P-05-714).
721.10411 Alkanenitrile, bis(cyanoalkyl)amino (generic) (P-07-537).
721.10412 Phosphonic acid ester (generic) (P-07-706).
721.10413 Fluorinated dialkyl ketone (generic) (P-10-135).
721.10414 Polycyclic polyamine diester organometallic compound (generic) 
          (P-10-358).
721.10415 3H-indolium, 2-[2-[3-[2-(1,3-dihydro-1,3,3-trimethyl-2H-indol-
          2-ylidene)ethylidene]-2-[(1-phenyl-1H-tetrazol-5-yl)thio]-1-
          cyclohexen-1-yl]ethenyl]-1, 3, 3-trimethyl-, chloride (1:1).
721.10416 Brominated polyphenyl ether (generic) (P-11-264).
721.10417 Biphenyl alkyl morpholino ketone (generic) (P-11-338).
721.10418 1,2-Cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, 1-butyl 2-(phenylmethyl) 
          ester.
721.10419 Tetrafluoroethylene chlorotrifluoroethylene copolymer 
          (generic) (P-11-561).
721.10420 Fluoropolymers (generic) (P-11-567, P-11-568, and P-11-569).
721.10421 Mercaptoalkoxysilane (generic) (P-11-594).
721.10422 Phenol, 2-[[[3-(1H-imidazol-1-yl)propyl]imino]phenylmethyl]-5-
          (octyloxy)-.
721.10423 Complex strontium aluminate, rare earth doped (generic).
721.10424 Benzoic acid, 4-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-, methyl.
721.10425 Substituted alkylamides (generic) (P-12-51 and P-12-52).
721.10426 1-Octadecanol, manuf. of, distn. lights, fractionation 
          heavies, distn. lights.
721.10427 Aminoalkanol (generic).
721.10428 Fatty acids, C<INF>18</INF>-unsatd., dimers, reaction products 
          with 1-piperazineethanamine.
721.10429 Fatty acids, C<INF>18</INF>-unsatd., dimers, reaction products 
          with 1-

[[Page 173]]

          piperazineethanamine and tall-oil fatty acids.
721.10430 Tetra alkyl ammonium salt (generic).
721.10431 Phosphoric acid esters (generic).
721.10432 1,2,4,5,7,8-Hexoxonane, 3,6,9-triethyl-3,6,9-trimethyl-.
721.10433 Cyclopentene, 1,2,3,3,4,4,5,5-octafluoro-.
721.10434 Cyclopentane, 1,1,2,2,3,3,4-heptafluoro-.
721.10435 Phenol, 2-(1-methyl-1-phenylethyl)-4-(1,1,3,3-
          tetramethylbutyl)-.
721.10436 Amine neutralized phosphated polyesters (generic).
721.10437 Sulfonic acid, linear xylene alkylate, mono, sodium salts 
          (generic).
721.10438 Dialkyl hydroxybenzenealkanoic acid ester (generic).
721.10439 1,3-Dioxolan-2-one, 4-ethenyl.
721.10440 Diphosphoric acid, polymers with ethoxylated reduced Me esters 
          of reduced polymd. oxidized tetrafluoroethylene.
721.10441 1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, di-C<INF>7-14</INF>-branched and 
          linear alkyl esters.
721.10442 1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, di-C<INF>6-14</INF>-branched and 
          linear alkyl esters.
721.10443 Ethoxylated alkylphenol sulfate, ammonium salt (generic).
721.10444 Propanol, mercapto-.
721.10445 2-Propen-1-ol, reaction products with hydrogen sulfide, distn. 
          residues.
721.10446 1, 9-Cyclohexadecadiene.
721.10447 17-Oxabicyclo[14.1.0]heptadec-8-ene.
721.10448 Acetic acid, hydroxy- methoxy-, methylester, reaction products 
          with substituted alkylamine (generic).
721.10449 Aromatic polyester polyol (generic).
721.10450 Oxirane, 2-[[3-(trimethoxysilyl)propoxy]methyl]-, reaction 
          products with wollastonite (Ca(SiO<INF>3</INF>)).
721.10451 Alkyd amide polyol (generic).
721.10452 9-Octadecenoic acid (9Z)-, 1,1'-(dimethylstannylene) ester.
721.10453 Polyglycerin alkyl ether (generic).
721.10454 Propoxylated ethoxylated alkylamine (generic).
721.10455 Oxirane, 2,2',2''-[ethylidynetris(4,1-
          phenyleneoxymethylene)]tris-.
721.10456 Tristyryl phenol alkoxylate salt (generic).
721.10457 1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, mixed esters with benzyl alc., 
          cyclohexanol, 2-ethyl-1-hexanol, fumaric acid and propylene 
          glycol.
721.10458 Acrylate of hydroxyimide (generic).
721.10459 Amino-substituted carbopolycycle (generic).
721.10460 Azo nickel complex (generic).
721.10461 Oxazolidine, 3,3'-methylenebis[5-methyl-.
721.10462 1-Penten-3-one, 1-(4-chlorophenyl)-4,4-dimethyl-.
721.10463 Fatty acid amides (generic).
721.10464 Fatty acid, reaction products with alkanolamine (generic).
721.10465 2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 3-hydroxytricyclo[3.3.1.13,7]dec-
          1-yl ester.
721.10466 2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-ethyltricyclo[3.3.1.13,7]dec-2-
          yl ester.
721.10467 2-Propenoic acid, 3-hydroxytricyclo[3.3.1.13,7]dec-1-yl ester.
721.10468 2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyltricyclo[3.3.1.13,7]dec-2-yl ester.
721.10469 2-Propenoic acid, 2-ethyltricyclo[3.3.1.13,7]dec-2-yl ester.
721.10470 Phosphonium, tetrabutyl-, 1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,4-nonafluoro-1-
          butanesulfonate (1:1).
721.10471 2-Propenoic acid, 1,1'-(3-methyl-1,5-pentanediyl) ester.
721.10472 1,3-Benzenedimethanamine, polymers with epichlorohydrin-
          polyethylene glycol reaction products.
721.10473 1-Propanaminium, 3-amino-N-(2-carboxyethyl)-N,N-dimethyl-, N-
          coco acyl derivs., inner salts.
721.10474 Substituted amino ethane sulfonic acid salt (generic).
721.10475 Hexanedioic acid, compd. with N1-(6-aminohexyl)-N1-methyl-1,6-
          hexanediamine (1:1).
721.10476 Oxetane, 3-(bromomethyl)-3-methyl-.
721.10477 Acrylate ester (generic).
721.10478 Polyether polyol (generic).
721.10479 Quaternary ammonium compounds, tris(hydrogenated tallow 
          alkyl)methyl, chlorides.
721.10480 Trimethylolpropane polyol, aminated (generic).
721.10481 Siloxanes and Silicones, Me vinyl, hydroxy-terminated, 
          reaction products with silica.
721.10482 Siloxanes and Silicones, di-Me, Me vinyl, hydroxy-terminated, 
          reaction products with silica.
721.10483 Siloxanes and Silicones, di-Me, Me vinyl, hydroxy-terminated, 
          reaction products with [(ethenyldimethylsilyl)oxy]-modified 
          silica.
721.10484 Siloxanes and Silicones, Me vinyl, hydroxy-terminated, 
          reaction products with [(ethenyldimethylsilyl)oxy]-modified 
          silica.
721.10485 Reaction products of alcohols, alkyl alcohols, amino alcohols 
          and methanol sodium salts (generic).
721.10486 Alkyl substituted amino-benzamide (generic).
721.10487 Alkylbenzenes sulfonic acids, metal salts (generic).
721.10488 Cuprate, [[[[[[[(sulfonaphthalenyl)]azo]-
          (substitutedphenyl)]azo]-(substitutedsulfonaphthalenyl)]azo]-
          substituted phenyl-substituted

[[Page 174]]

          heteromonocycle], sodium salts (generic).
721.10489 Substituted aryl sulfonium polyfluorophosphate salts 
          (generic).
721.10490 HDI biuret, hydroxyethyl methacrylate prepolymer (generic).
721.10491 Benzenepropanal,.alpha.-methyl-.
721.10492 Trisphenol (generic).
721.10493 Tris-alkyl-alkoxy melamine polymer (generic).
721.10494 Reaction product of trimethylolpropane triacrylate and 
          alkylene imine (generic).
721.10495 Metal silicate (generic).
721.10496 Amino alkoxy polydimethylsiloxane, hydroxy-terminated 
          (generic).
721.10497 Substituted alkyl ester, hydrolysis products with silica and 
          substituted silane (generic).
721.10498 Substituted alkyl ester, hydrolysis products with silica 
          (generic).
721.10499 Substituted silane, hydrolysis products with silica (generic).
721.10500 Acrylated mixed metal oxides (generic).
721.10501 Tridecyl phthalate (generic).
721.10502 Modified triethylene glycol dithiol (generic).
721.10503 1,2-Ethanediol, 1-carbamate.
721.10504 Surface modified magnesium hydroxide (generic).
721.10505 Phosphoric acid, mixed mono- and diesters with 2-ethyl-1-
          hexanol and polyethylene glycol mono-C<INF>12-16</INF>-alkyl 
          ethers.
721.10506 Alkylated phenols (generic).
721.10507 Biphenyl substituted benzopyran (generic).
721.10508 Alkene substituted Bis phenol (generic).
721.10509 Pentane, 1,1,1,2,3,3-hexafluoro-4-(1,1,2,3,3,3-
          hexafluoropropoxy)-.
721.10510 Alkylaminoalcohol (generic).
721.10511 Quaternary ammonium salts (generic).
721.10512 Fatty acid maleic acid amides (generic).
721.10513 Aromatic acrylate monomer (generic).
721.10514 [1,1'-Biphenyl]-2,2'-disulfonic acid, 4-[2-(4,5-dihydro-3-
          methyl-5-oxo-1-phenyl-1H-pyrazol-4-yl)diazenyl]-4'-[2-(2-
          hydroxy-1-naphthalenyl)diazenyl]-, sodium salt (1:2).
721.10515 Partially fluorinated alcohol substituted glycols (generic).
721.10516 Perfluorinated alkylthio betaine (generic).
721.10517 Alkyl methacrylates, polymer with substituted carbomonocycle, 
          hydroxymethyl acrylamide and fluorinatedalkyl acrylate 
          (generic).
721.10518 Diethylene glycol, polymer with diisocyanatoalkane, 
          polyethylene glycol monomethyl ether- and fluorinatedalkanol-
          blocked (generic).
721.10519 Perfluoroalkyl acrylate copolymer (generic).
721.10520 Acetylated fatty acid glycerides (generic).
721.10521 Fluorosurfactant (generic).
721.10522 Perfluoroalkylethyl methacrylate copolymer with 
          dialkylaminoethylmethacrylate (generic).
721.10523 Perfluoroalkylethyl methacrylate copolymer with hydroxymethyl 
          acrylamide, vinyl chloride and long chain fatty alkyl acrylate 
          (generic).
721.10524 Fluorinated alkylsulfonamidol urethane polymer (generic).
721.10525 Alkoxy dialkyl aminoalkanol carboxylate (generic).
721.10526 2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-hydroxyethyl ester, telomers 
          with C[bdi1][bdi8]<INF>-</INF>[bdi2][bdi6]-alkyl acrylate, 1-
          dodecanethiol, N-(hydroxymethyl)-2-methyl-2-propenamide, 
          polyfluorooctyl methacrylate and vinylidene chloride, 2,2'-
          [1,2-diazenediylbis(1-methylethylidene)bis[4,5-dihydro-1H-
          imidazole] hydrochloride (1:2)-initiated (generic).
721.10527 Perfluoroalkylethyl methacrylate copolymer (generic).
721.10528 Modified fluorinated acrylates (generic).
721.10529 Cobalt iron manganese oxide, carboxylic acid-modified 
          (generic).
721.10530 Acrylate manufacture byproduct distillation residue (generic).
721.10531 Distillation bottoms from manufacture of brominated 
          cycloalkanes (generic).
721.10532 Tar, brown coal.
721.10533 Amine-modified urea-formaldehyde polymer (generic).
721.10534 Brominated aliphatic alcohol (generic).
721.10535 Phosphonium, tributyltetradecyl-, chloride (1:1).
721.10536 Long-chain perfluoroalkyl carboxylate chemical substances.
721.10537 Acrylate ester (generic).
721.10538 Phosphonium, tetrakis(hydroxymethyl)-, chloride (1:1), 
          reaction products with 1-tetradecanamine and urea.
721.10539 Bis[phenyl-2H-1,3-benzoxazine]derivative (generic).
721.10540 1,3-Benzenedimethanamine, N-(2-phenylethyl) derivs.
721.10541 5,2,6-(Iminomethenimino)-1H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine, octahydro-
          1,3,4,7,8,10-hexanitro-.
721.10542 Dodecanedioic acid, 1,12-dimethyl ester.
721.10543 Oxetane, 3-methyl-3-[(2,2,3,3,3-pentafluoropropoxy)methyl]-.
721.10544 Oxetane, 3-methyl-3-[[(3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
          nonafluorohexyl)oxy]methyl]-.

[[Page 175]]

721.10545 Aminotriazine modified cresol novolec resin (generic).
721.10546 Pentenylated polyethylene glycol sulfate salt (generic).
721.10547 Dialkyl dimethyl ammonium methylcarbonate (generic).
721.10548 Mixed alkyl phosphate esters alkoxylated (generic).
721.10549 Ethane, 1,1,2,2-tetrafluoro-1-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)-.
721.10550 Rare earth salt of a carboxylic acid (generic).
721.10551 Bisphenol S mono ether (generic).
721.10552 Oxirane, 2-(1-chlorocyclopropyl)-2-[(2-chlorophenyl)methyl]-.
721.10553 Potassium titanium oxide.
721.10554 Iso-tridecanol (generic).
721.10555 Benzoic acid nonyl ester, branched and linear.
721.10556 Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.- (2-methyl-2-propen-1-yl) 
          -.omega.-hydroxy-,C<INF>12-15</INF>-alkyl ethers.
721.10557 Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.- (2-methyl-2-propen-1-yl) 
          -.omega.-hydroxy-,C<INF>10-16</INF>-alkyl ethers.
721.10558 Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.- (2-methyl-2-propen-1-yl) 
          -.omega.-hydroxy-,C<INF>12-16</INF>-alkyl ethers.
721.10559 Morpholine, 4-C<INF>6-12</INF> acyl derivs.
721.10560 Alkanoldioic dialkyl esters (generic).
721.10561 Substituted phenol (generic).
721.10562 Aluminum trihydrate and silane homopolymer (generic).
721.10563 2-Oxiranemethanamine, N-[3-(2-oxiranylmethoxy)phenyl]-N-(2-
          oxiranylmethyl)-.
721.10564 Mixed amino diaryl sulfone isomers (generic).
721.10565 Ethanol, 2,2'-[[3-[(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]propyl]imino]bis-, N-
          (hydrogenated tallow alkyl) derivs.
721.10566 1-Propanamine, N-(1-methylethyl) -,3-(C<INF>12-15</INF>-
          alkyloxy) derivs.
721.10567 Amidoamine salt (generic).
721.10568 Diethanolamine salt of polymeric acid (generic).
721.10569 Tricyclic quaternary amine salt (generic).
721.10570 Cyclic amine reaction product with acetophenone and 
          formaldehyde acid salt (generic).
721.10571 1,3-Benzenediol, polymer with 1,1'-
          methylenebis[isocyanatobenzene].
721.10572 Benzamide, N-[[4- [(cyclopropylamino) carbonyl]phenyl] 
          sulfonyl]-2-methoxy-.
721.10573 Magnesium hydroxide surface treated with substituted 
          alkoxysilanes (generic).
721.10574 Alkylcarboxy polyester acrylate reaction products with mixed 
          metal oxides (generic).
721.10575 1-Propanone, 1,1'-(oxydi-4,1-phenylene)bis[2-hydroxy-2-
          methyl-.
721.10576 Polyalkenyl, N,N'-bistriazole (generic).
721.10577 Benzenamine, 5-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-2-[(2-ethylhexyl)thio]-,4-
          methylbenzenesulfonate (1:1).
721.10578 Unsaturated polyester imide (generic).
721.10579 Carbon black derived from the pyrolysis of rubber tire shreds 
          (generic).
721.10580 Poly[oxy(methyl-1,2- ethanediyl)], alpha, alpha'-[1,4- 
          cyclohexanediylbis(methylene)]bis [omega-(2-
          aminomethylethoxy)-.
721.10581 Brominated polyurethane prepolymers of methylene diphenyl 
          diisocyanate (MDI) (generic).
721.10582 Quaternary ammonium compound (generic).
721.10583 Benzenamine, 4,4'-[1,3-phenylenebis(1-methylethylidene)]bis-.
721.10584 Cyclopentene, 1,3,3,4,4,5,5-heptafluoro-.
721.10585 Disiloxane, 1-butyl-1,1,3,3-tetramethyl-.
721.10586 Disiloxane, 1,3-dibutyl-1,1,3,3-tetramethyl-.
721.10587 1H-Pyrazole, 3,4-dimethyl-.
721.10588 Phenol, 2-[1-[[3-(1H-imidazol-1-yl)propyl]imino]ethyl]-.
721.10589 Unsaturated fatty acids, amides with polyethylenepolyamine 
          (generic).
721.10590 Fatty acids, amides with triethylentetramine (generic).
721.10591 Tertiary ammonium compound (generic).
721.10592 1-Butanol, 4-amino-.
721.10593 5-Isobenzofurancarboxylic acid, 1,3-dihydro-1,3-dioxo-, 2-[(2-
          methyl-1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)oxy]ethyl ester.
721.10594 Hexanedioic acid, polymer with 2,2-dimethyl-1,3-propanediol, 
          1,6-hexanediol, hydrazine, 3-hydroxy-2-(hydroxymethyl)-2-
          methylpropanoic acid, 5-isocyanato-1-(isocyanatomethyl)-1,3,3-
          trimethylcyclohexane and 1,1'-[(1-methylethylidene)bis(4,1-
          phenyleneoxy)]bis[2-propanol], iso-Bu alc.-blocked, compds. 
          with triethylamine.
721.10595 Octadecen-1-aminium, N-ethyl-N,N-dimethy-, ethyl sulfate 
          (1:1).
721.10596 Oligomeric phenolic ether (generic).
721.10597 Benzeneacetonitrile, alkoxy-[[(alkylsulfonyl)oxy]imino]- 
          (generic).
721.10598 Lead strontium titanium zirconium oxide.
721.10599 Calcium cobalt lead titanium tungsten oxide.
721.10600 Calcium cobalt lead strontium titanium tungsten oxide.
721.10601 Lanthanum lead titanium zirconium oxide.
721.10602 Lead niobium titanium zirconium oxide.
721.10603 Epoxy modified alkyd resin, partially neutralized (generic).
721.10604 Polyetherdiamine (generic).

[[Page 176]]

721.10605 Polyoxyalkylene ether, polymer with aliphatic diisocyanate, 
          homopolymer, alkanol-blocked (generic).
721.10606 Alkyl substituted alkanediol polymer with aliphatic and 
          alicyclic diisocyanates (generic).
721.10607 Aliphatic diisocyanate, homopolymer, alkanol-blocked 
          (generic).
721.10608 Aliphatic diisocyanate polymer with alkanediol and alkylglycol 
          (generic).
721.10609 Imidodicarbonic diamide, N,N'-dibutyl-N',2-bis[4-[(4-
          isocyanatophenyl)methyl]phenyl]-.
721.10610 Toluene diisocyanate, polymers with polyalkylene glycol 
          (generic).
721.10611 Benzoic acid, 4-[(1-oxodecyl)oxy]-.
721.10618 Polyaromatic organophosphorus compound (generic).
721.10619 Perfluoroalkylethyl methacrylate copolymer (generic).
721.10620 Oxirane, 2,2'-(phenylene)bis-.
721.10621 Distillation bottoms, alkylated benzene by-product (generic).
721.10622 Copper(2 + ), tetraammine-, chloride (1:2).
721.10624 Dicyclohexylmethane-4,4'-diisocyanate, polymer with 
          ethoxylated, propoxylated polyethers (generic).
721.10625 Distillation bottoms, alkylated benzene by-product, brominated 
          and bromo diphenyl alkane (generic).
721.10626 1,4-Butanediol, polymer with substituted alkane and 
          substituted methylene biscarbomonocycle, 2-hydroxyalkyl 
          acrylate-blocked (generic).
721.10627 Yttrium borate phosphate vanadate with europium and additional 
          dopants (generic).
721.10628 Mixed metal oxalate (generic).
721.10629 Fatty acids, tall-oil, reaction products with modified fatty 
          acids and polyalkanolamines (generic).
721.10630 Amino acid, carboxyalkyl, alkylsulfonate, alkali salt 
          (generic).
721.10631 Mixed metal borate (generic).
721.10632 Benzamide, N-[(cyclohexylamino)thioxomethyl]-.
721.10633 Aromatic sulfonic acid amino azo dye salts (generic).
721.10634 Iodonium, diphenyl-, 4,4'-di-C10-13-alkyl derivs., (OC-6-11)-
          hexafluoroantimonates(1-).
721.10635 Alkyl maleimide substituted bicyclic olefin (generic).
721.10636 Slimes and sludges, automotive coating, wastewater treatment, 
          solid waste.
721.10637 Substituted picolinate (generic).
721.10638 Lithium metal phosphate (generic).
721.10639 Siloxanes and Silicones, di-Me, polymers with Ph 
          silsesquioxanes, hydrolyzed, reaction products with 2-[[3-
          (trimethoxysilyl)propoxy]methyl] oxirane.
721.10640 1,2-Cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, 1-(2-ethylhexyl) 2-(2-
          methylpropyl) ester.
721.10641 Phenol and vinyltoluene based hydrocarbon resin (generic).
721.10642 Modified polyisocyanates (generic).
721.10643 Diisocyanate terminated polycarbodiimide (generic).
721.10644 Reaction product of aluminum hydroxide and modified 
          alkoxysilane (generic).
721.10645 Multi-walled carbon nanotube (generic) (P-08-0392).
721.10646 Multi-wall carbon nanotubes (generic) (P-09-257).
721.10647 Multi-walled carbon nanofibers (generic).
721.10648 Modified lithium iron phosphates (generic).
721.10649 MDI modified polyalkylene glycol adipate polyester (generic).
721.10651 Carbide derived nanocarbon (generic).
721.10652 Hexanedioic acid, polymer with polyether polyol, 1,1'-
          methylenebis[4-isocyanatobenzene] and dihydroxydialkyl ether 
          (generic).
721.10653 Hexanedioic acid, polymer with .alpha.-hydro-.omega.-
          hydroxypoly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)],1,1'-methylenebis[4-
          isocyanatobenzene], dihydroxydialkyl ether and dialkanol ether 
          (generic).
721.10654 Hexanedioic acid, polymer with .alpha.-hydro-.omega.-
          hydroxypoly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)],1,1'-
          methylenebis[isocyanatobenzene], dihydroxydialkyl ether and 
          dialkanol ether (generic).
721.10655 Hexanedioic acid, polymer with .alpha.-hydro-.omega.-
          hydroxypoly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)],1,1'-methylenebis[4-
          isocyanatobenzene], dihydroxydialkyl ether, reaction products 
          with dialkylcarbinol (generic).
721.10656 Hexanedioic acid, polymer with .alpha.-hydro-.omega.-
          hydroxypoly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)],1,1'-methylenebis[4-
          isocyanatobenzene], dihydroxydialkyl ether reaction products 
          with dialkylcarbinol (generic).
721.10657 Castor oil, polymer with hydrogenated vegetable oil, 1,1'-
          methylenebis[isocyanatobenzene] and isocyanate (generic).
721.10658 2-Oxepanone, polymer with 1,6-diisocyanatohexane, 2,2-
          dimethyl-1,3-propanediol and 2,2'-oxybis[ethanol].
721.10659 Poly(oxy-1,4-butanediyl), -hydro-hydroxy-, polymer with 
          alkyldiisocyanates (generic).
721.10660 Aliphatic diisocyanate adduct with substituted amino alkyl 
          silane (generic).

[[Page 177]]

721.10661 Methylenebis[isocyanatobenzene], polymer with alkanedoic acid, 
          alkylene glycols, alkoxylated alkanepolyol and substituted 
          trialkoxysilane (generic).
721.10662 Acetaldehyde, substituted-, reaction products with 2-butyne-1, 
          4-diol (generic).
721.10663 Functionalized multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic).
721.10664 Alkenedioic acid dialkyl ester, reaction products with 
          alkenoic acid alkyl esters and diamine (generic).
721.10665 2-Propenoic acid, (2-ethyl-2-methyl-1,3-dioxolan-4-yl)methyl 
          ester.
721.10666 Quaternary ammonium compounds, bis(fattyalkyl) dimethyl, salts 
          with tannins (generic).
721.10667 Slimes and sludges, aluminum and iron casting, wastewater 
          treatment, solid waste.
721.10668 Trisodium diethylene triaminepolycarboxylate (generic).
721.10669 Tertiary amine alkyl ether (generic).
721.10670 Bromine, manufacture of, by-products from, distillation 
          residues.
721.10671 Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic).
721.10672 Sodium olefin sulfonate derivative (generic).
721.10673 Alkanes, C21-34-branched and linear, chloro.
721.10674 Alkanes, C22-30-branched and linear, chloro.
721.10675 Alkanes, C24-28, chloro.
721.10676 Aromatic hydrocarbon mixture (generic).
721.10677 Alkyl phosphonate (generic).
721.10678 1,4-Cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, 1,4-dimethyl ester, 
          hydrogenolysis products.
721.10679 Carboxylic acid, substituted alkylstannylene ester, reaction 
          products with inorganic acid tetra alkyl ester (generic).
721.10680 Fatty acid amides (generic).
721.10681 Alkaneamide, halo-dialkylthienyl-alkoxydialkyl-, manuf. of by-
          products from (generic).
721.10682 Fatty acid amide hydrochlorides (generic).
721.10683 Dialkylamino cocoalkyl alkylamide acid salt (generic).
721.10684 Substituted benzenamine schiff base (generic).
721.10685 Phosphoric acid, mixed esters (generic).
721.10686 Fatty acid amides (generic).
721.10687 Fatty acid amide hydrochlorides (generic).
721.10688 Copper, chloro[tris(2-chloroethyl) phosphite-.kappa.P]-.
721.10689 Organo zinc salts (generic).
721.10690 Benzenedicarboxylic acid, polymer with substituted alkanediol, 
          dodecanedioic acid, 1,2-ethanediol, alkanedioic acid, 
          alkanediol,.alpha.-hydro-.omega.-hydroxypoly[oxyalkanediyl], 
          1,3-isobenzofurandione, methylene diphenyl diisocyanate, 2-
          oxepanone, 2,2'-oxybis[ethanol] and polymethylene 
          polyphenylene isocyanate (generic).
721.10691 Fatty acid amide (generic).
721.10692 Fluorinated alkyl dianiline (generic).
721.10693 Diphenylmethane diisocyanate polymer with alkanoic diacid and 
          alkanediol (generic).
721.10695 1,2,3-Propanetricarboxamide, N1,N2,N3-tris(2-
          methylcyclohexyl)-.
721.10696 Polyfluorinated alkyl thiol (generic).
721.10697 Polyfluorinated alkyl polyamide (generic).
721.10698 Polyfluorinated alkyl halide (generic).
721.10699 Polyfluorinated alkyl thio acrylamide (generic).
721.10700 Polyfluorinated alkyl thio polyacrylamide (generic).
721.10701 Polyfluorinated alkyl amine (generic).
721.10702 Polyfluorinated alkyl thio polyacrylic acid-acrylamide 
          (generic).
721.10703 Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic).
721.10704 Aryl-substituted alkane.
721.10705 Aromatic amine with cyclo amino carbonyls (generic).
721.10706 Infused carbon nanostructures (generic).
721.10707 Substituted benzyl acrylate (generic).
721.10708 Zirconium substituted heteropolycyclic (generic).
721.10709 Alkylphenol (generic).
721.10710 4, 7-Methano-1H-indene, 3a, 4, 7, 7a-tetrahydro-, polymer with 
          2-methyl-1, 3-butadiene and 5-(1-
          methylethenyl)bicyclo[2.2.1]hept-2-ene.
721.10711 Alkyl substituted catechol (generic).
721.10712 Antimony tris(dialkyldithiocarbamate) (generic).
721.10713 Antimony tris(dialkyldithiocarbamate) (generic).
721.10714 Zinc bis(dialkyldithiocarbamate) (generic).
721.10715 Carbonic acid, dialkyl ester (generic).
721.10716 Phenol, 2,6-dimethyl-, homopolymer, ether with 2,2',3,3',5,5'-
          hexamethyl[1,1'biphenyl]-4,4'diol 
          (2:1),bis[(ethenylphenyl)methyl] ether.
721.10718 Substituted picolinic acid (generic).
721.10721 Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.,.alpha.'-[(1-
          methylethylidene)di-4,1-phenylene]bis[.omega.-[[6-(2,5-
          dihydro-2,5-dioxo-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)-1-oxohexyl]oxy]-.
721.10722 Oxirane,2-[(1-propen-1-yloxy)methyl]-.

[[Page 178]]

721.10724 Oxirane, [[2-(2-ethenyloxy)ethoxy]methyl]-.
721.10725 Alcohol propoxylate (generic).
721.10726 Alcohol propoxylate sulfate salt (generic).
721.10727 Amphoteric fluorinated surfactant (generic).
721.10728 2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-hydroxyethyl esters, telomers 
          with C18-26-alkyl acrylate, 1-dodecanethiol, N-
          (hydroxymethyl)-2-methyl-2-propenamide, polyfluorooctyl 
          methacrylate, 2,2'-[1,2-diazenediylbis(1-
          methylethylidene)]bis[4,5-dihydro-1H-imidazole]hydrochloride 
          (1:2)-initiated (generic).
721.10729 2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, C16-18 esters, telomers with 3-
          chloro-2-hydroxypropyl methacrylate, 1-dodecanethiol, N-
          (hydroxymethyl)-2-methyl-2-propenamide, polyfluorooctyl 
          methacrylate, and rel- (1R,2R,4R)-1,7,7-
          trimethylbicyclo[2.2.1]hept-2-yl methacrylate, 2,2'-[1,2-
          diazenediylbis(1-methylethylidene)]bis[4,5-dihydro-1H-
          imidazole]hydrochloride (1:2)-initiated (generic).
721.10730 Tires, wastes, pyrolyzed, C6-39 oil fraction.
721.10731 Tires, wastes, pyrolyzed, C7-56 oil fraction.
721.10732 Neodymium, butadiene iso-Bu neodecanoate complexes.
721.10733 Tires, wastes, pyrolyzed, C5-15 condensate oil fraction.
721.10734 Lithium salt of substituted imide (generic).
721.10736 Alcohols, C9-11-branched, ethoxylated propoxylated.
721.10737 Carboxylic anhydride, polymer with -hydro--hydroxypoly(oxy-
          1,2-diethanediyl), compd. with 2,3,4,6,7,8,9,10-
          octahydropyrimido-[1,2-a]azepine (generic).
721.10738 Formaldehyde, polymer with 2,3-dimethylphenol, 2,4-
          dimethylphenol, 2,5-dimethylphenol, 3,5-dimethylphenol, 3-
          ethylphenol, 4-ethylphenol, 3-methylphenol, 4-methylphenol and 
          phenol.
721.10739 Caprolactone homopolymer of substituted benzotriazole 
          (generic).
721.10740 Tin(2 + ) salt of alkylcarboxylic acid (generic).
721.10745 Alkoxylated quaternary alkyl ammonium fluoroalkylsulfonimide 
          (generic).
721.10746 Isocyanate terminated urethane polymer (generic).
721.10747 4-Pyrimidianamine, 2,5 dimethoxy-.
721.10748 Dicarbomonocycle-substituted carbomonocycledicarboxamide 
          (generic).
721.10749 Dicarboheterocycle-substituted carbomonocycledicarboxamide 
          (generic).
721.10750 Tricarbomonocycle-substituted carbomonocycletricarboxamide 
          (generic).
721.10751 Cycloalkylamino oleyl alkylamide acid salts (generic).
721.10752 Cycloalkylamino cocoalkyl alkylamide acid salts (generic).
721.10753 Methanamine, N,N-dimethyl-, reaction products with alkylamine-
          epichlorohydrin polymer, chlorides (generic).
721.10754 Mixture of alkylated benzene, brominated (generic) and 
          alkylated benzene, dibrominated (generic).
721.10755 Single-walled carbon nanotubes (generic).
721.10756 Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic).
721.10757 Fatty acids, diesters with dihydroxy bicyclic diether 
          (generic).
721.10758 Thermolized wasted plastic (generic).
721.10759 Polyphosphoric acids, esters with substituted amines, 
          compounds with alkyl pyridines (generic).
721.10760 Zinc carboxylate salt (generic).
721.10761 Fatty acid amide (generic).
721.10763 Alkanaminium, [substituted carbomonocycle 
          [(alkylamino)carbomonocycle]alkylene]-substituted 
          carbomonocycle, carboxylate salt (generic).
721.10764 Substituted perfluoroether (generic).
721.10766 Pyridine, 4-decyl-.
721.10767 Fluoroether (generic).
721.10768 N-(2-hydroxyethyl) alkenamide (generic).
721.10769 1-Octadecanaminium, N,N-dimethyl-N-[3-(triethoxysilyl)propyl]-
          , chloride (1:1), reaction products with ethylene glycol.
721.10770 Fluoroalkyl sulfonamide derivatives (generic).
721.10771 Hexane, 1,6-diisocyanato-, homopolymer, .alpha.-[1-[[[3-[[3-
          (dimethylamino)propyl] amino]propyl]amino]carbonyl]- 1,2,2,2-
          tetrafluoroethyl]-.omega.- (1,1,2,2,3,3,3-heptafluoropropoxy) 
          poly[oxy[trifluoro(trifluoromethyl)- 1,2-ethanediyl]]-blocked.
721.10772 Fluorinated oxirane polymer (generic).
721.10773 Methylene bisacetophenone derivative (generic).
721.10774 Amine adduct (generic).
721.10775 Metal hydroxide, treated with alkenyl alkoxy silane (generic).
721.10777 2,4-Hexadienoic acid, 3-(trimethoxysilyl)propyl ester.
721.10778 2,4,Hexadienoic acid, 3-(trimethoxysilyl)propyl ester 
          (2E,4E)-.
721.10779 Substituted alkene, reaction products with isophoronediamine 
          (generic).
721.10780 Propaneperoxoic acid, 2,2-dimethyl-, 1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutyl 
          ester.
721.10781 Fatty acid amide hydrochlorides (generic).
721.10782 Fatty acid amides (generic).

[[Page 179]]

721.10783 Fatty acid amide acetates (generic).
721.10784 Mixed butyltin mercaptoester sulfides (generic).
721.10785 Mixed methyltin mercaptoester sulfides (generic).
721.10786 Trisubsituted ethoxylated carbomonocycle (generic).
721.10787 Multi-functional novolac type epoxy resin (generic).
721.10788 Alkanedioic acids, polymer with substituted propanediol, 
          alkanediols, and polyethylene glycol and MDI (generic).
721.10793 Phosphoric acid, iron (2 + ) lithium salt (1:1:1).
721.10794 Alkenyl succinate, amine salts (generic).
721.10795 Amine salt of vegetable oil, polymer with cycloaliphatic 
          glycol, hydroxy substituted carboxylic acid, aliphatic 
          diisocyanate and tetra hydroxy alkane (generic).
721.10796 Polymer of terephthalic acid and ethyl benzene with multi-
          walled carbon nanotube (generic).
721.10797 Polycarbamoylsulfonic acid sodium salt (generic).
721.10798 Phosphonic acid chloride, diester (generic).
721.10799 Substituted dimethyl phenols (generic).
721.10800 2-Propenoic acid, 4-phenoxybutyl ester.
721.10801 Organic phosphonate salt (generic).
721.10802 Quaternized protein/silicone copolymer (generic).
721.10803 1,5-Pentanediamine.
721.10804 Cashew-nutshell-liquid, polymer with formaldehyde, reaction 
          products with diethanolamine and diisopropanol amine.
721.10805 Fatty acid imidazolines (generic).
721.10806 Trimellitic anhydride, polymer with alkanolamine and 
          tetrahydrophthalic anhydride (generic).
721.10807 Aliphatic ether ethyl alcohol (generic).
721.10808 Bisxylenol diglycidyl ether polymer (generic).
721.10809 Cyclotetrasiloxane, 2,4,6,8-tetrakis[3-[2-(2-
          methoxyethoxy)ethoxy]propyl]-2,4,6,8-tetramethyl-.
721.10810 Heterocyclic amine potassium salt (generic).
721.10811 Heterocyclic amine substituted acrylamide (generic).
721.10812 Alkylbenzene sulfonic acid (generic).
721.10813 Benzenesulfonic acid, dimethyl-, alkyl derivatives, sodium 
          salt (generic).
721.10814 2-Propenoic acid, 3-phenyl-, zinc salt (2:1), (2E)-.
721.10815 Fatty acids, satd. and unsatd alkyl-, esters with polyol 
          (generic).
721.10816 Fluoroalkyl acrylate copolymer modified with polysiloxanes 
          (generic).
721.10817 Fluoroalkyl acrylate copolymer (generic).
721.10818 Fluoroalkyl methacrylate copolymer (generic).
721.10819 Zinc carboxylate (generic).
721.10820 Phenol, styrenated, reaction products with polyethylene glycol 
          and 2-[(2-propen-1-yloxy)methyl]oxirane.
721.10821 Quaternary ammonium compounds, tri-C8-10-alkylmethyl, hydrogen 
          sulfates (generic).
721.10822 1,2,3-Propanetriol, homopolymer, dodecanoate.
721.10823 2-Propenal, 3-[4-(1-methylethyl)phenyl]-.
721.10824 Brominated filtration residue (generic).
721.10825 Fatty acids reaction products with polyethylenepolyamine and 
          naphthenic acids (generic).
721.10826 Substituted aminoalkyl nitrile (generic).
721.10827 Cyclooctadiene metal derivatives (generic).
721.10828 1,2,3-Propanetriol, homopolymer, alkanoates (generic) and 
          Glycerides, alkanoate, mono-, di- and tri- (generic).
721.10829 Xanthylium, x-[2-(alcoxycarbonyl)phenyl]-bis(alkylamino)-
          dimethyl-, x'-[x'' -[hydroxy-x'''-[[[[hydroxy-x''''-
          (phenyldiazenyl)-sulfo-2-naphthalenyl] 
          amino]carbonyl]amino]sulfo -naphthalenyl]diazenyl]benzoate, 
          sodium salt (generic).
721.10830 2-Butene, 1,1,1,4,4,4-hexafluoro-, (2Z)-.
721.10831 Aluminum phosphate (generic).
721.10832 Alkyl triazine (generic).
721.10833 Substituted bis 2,6-xylenol (generic).
721.10834 Heteropolycyclic diacrylate (generic).
721.10835 1,6-Hexanediamine, N1-(6-aminohexyl)-, polymer with 2-
          (chloromethyl)oxirane, N-(dithiocarboxy) derivs., sodium 
          salts.
721.10836 Dimethylaminoalkyl alkene amide (generic).
721.10837 Substituted naphthalene polymer glycidyl ether (generic).
721.10838 Alkylpolycarboxylic acid, derivative, 
          tris(fluorinatedalkoxy)alkyl ester salt (generic).
721.10839 Tricyclo[3.3.1.13,7]decan-1-amine, N,N-dimethyl-.
721.10840 Sulfosuccinic acid ester, alkylamine derivs., sodium salt 
          (generic).
721.10841 Bismuth nitrate oxide (Bi3(NO3)O4).
721.10843 Substituted amide aromatic carboxylic acid, metal salt 
          (generic).
721.10844 Graphene nanoplatelets having a predominant thickness of 1-10 
          layers

[[Page 180]]

          with lateral dimension predominantly less than 2 microns.
721.10845 Methanaminium, N-[4-[[4-(dimethylamino)phenyl] 
          phenylmethylene]-2,5 -cyclohexadien-1-ylidene] -N-methyl-, 
          ethanedioate, ethanedioate (2:2:1).
721.10846 Sulfurized hydrocarbon (generic).
721.10847 Oxiranemethanaminium, N,N,N-trimethyl-, bromide.
721.10848 Aryloxyalkyl amine (generic).
721.10849 Phenol-biphenyl-formaldehyde polycondensate (generic).
721.10850 Polymer of phenol, biphenyl and resorcinol (generic).
721.10851 Trichloroethylene.
721.10852 Fatty acids compound with cyclohexanamine (generic).
721.10853 Fluoro-modified acrylic copolymer (generic).
721.10854 Siloxanes and Silicones, alkyl, alky propoxy ethyl, methyl 
          octyl, alkyl polyfluorooctyl (generic).
721.10855 Partially fluorinated alcohol, reaction products with 
          phosphorus oxide (P[bdi2]O[bdi5]) amine salts (generic).
721.10856 Fatty acids amine salt (generic).
721.10857 Organophosphorus polymer (generic).
721.10858 Fluorinated acid alkylester (generic).
721.10859 Quaternary alkyl methyl amine ethoxylate methyl chloride 
          (generic).
721.10860 Substituted carboxamide (generic).
721.10861 Phosphoric acid, sodium titanium (4+) salt (3:1:2).
721.10862 Oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, 
          phosphate; Oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, 
          monohexadecyl ether, phosphate, sodium salt; Oxirane, 2-
          methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, phosphate, 
          potassium salt; Oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, 
          monohexadecyl ether, phosphate, ammonium salt; Ethanol, 2-
          amino-, compd. with 2-methyloxirane polymer with oxirane 
          monohexadecyl ether phosphate; and Ethanol, 2,2'2'',-
          nitrilotris-, compd. with 2-methyloxirane polymer with oxirane 
          monohexadecyl ether phosphate.
721.10863 Nitrile amine (generic).
721.10864 1,3-propanediamine, N1, N1-alkyl (generic).
721.10865 2-Pyridinecarboxylic acid, 4,5,6-trichloro-.
721.10866 Imidazoliurn, polymer with cyclic anhydride and alkenoic acid, 
          alkali salt (generic).
721.10867 Hydrochlorofluorocarbon (generic).
721.10868 Alkylalkenoic acid copolymer (generic).
721.10869 D-Glucitol, alkylamino-N-acyl derivs. (generic).
721.10870 Cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, dialkyl ester (generic).
721.10872 Heteropolycyclic, polymer with alkanedioic acid, di-alkenoate 
          (generic).
721.10875 Alkali transition metal oxide (generic).
721.10876 Perfluoroalkyl substituted alkyl sulfonate (generic).
721.10877 Polyfluorinated alkyl quaternary ammonium chloride (generic).
721.10878 Polyfluorinatedalkylsulfonyl substituted alkane derivative 
          (generic).
721.10879 1-Octadecanaminium, N-(3-chloro-2-hydroxypropyl) -N,N-
          dimethyl-, chloride (1:1).
721.10880 Fatty acid rxn products with aminoalkylamines (generic).
721.10881 Fatty acid amides (generic).
721.10882 Trialkylammonium borodibenzoate (generic).
721.10883 Fatty ester derivatives, reaction products with alkanolamine, 
          hydroxylated, borated (generic).
721.10884 Benzenepropanol, 1-benzoate.
721.10885 Alcohols, C<INF>12-22</INF>, distn. residues.
721.10886 Phosphoric acid, mixed Bu and decyl and octyl and 2-(2-
          phenoxyethoxy)ethyl and 2-phenoxyethyl esters.
721.10887 Phosphoric acid, mixed Bu and decyl and octyl and 2-(2-
          phenoxyethoxy)ethyl and 2-phenoxyethyl esters, potassium 
          salts.
721.10888 Siloxanes and Silicones, 3-[(2-aminoethyl)amino)propyl Me, di-
          Me, reaction products with cadmium zinc selenide sulfide, 
          lauric acid and oleylamine.
721.10889 Dodecanoic acid, reaction products with cadmium zinc selenide 
          sulfide and oleylamine.
721.10890 Phosphonic acid, P-tetradecyl-, reaction products with cadmium 
          selenide (CdSe).
721.10891 Alkyl silicate, polymer with 2-(chloromethyl)oxirane and 
          4,4[min]-(1-methylethylidene) bis[phenol], alkoxylated 
          (generic).
721.10892 Reaction product of a mixture of aromatic dianhydrides and 
          aliphatic esters with an aromatic diamine (generic).
721.10893 Fatty acids, tall-oil, reaction products with an ether and 
          triethylenetetramine (generic).
721.10894 Substituted benzyl acrylate (generic).
721.10895 Fluoroalkyl acrylate copolymer (generic).
721.10896 1-Hexanol, 6-mercapto-.
721.10897 Phenol, 2,2[min]-[1,2-disubstituted -1,2-
          ethanediyl]bis(iminomethylene) bis[substituted- (generic).
721.10898 Carbomonocycles, polymer with substituted heteromonocycle, 
          succinate, methyl acrylate (generic).
721.10899 Halogenated alkyl trimethylaminium halide (generic).
721.10900 Titanium salt, reaction products with silica (generic).

[[Page 181]]

721.10901 Formaldehyde, reaction products with aniline and aromatic 
          mono- and di-phenol mixture (generic).
721.10902 Functionalized carbon nanotubes (generic).
721.10903 Acrylated mixed metal oxides (generic).
721.10904 Phenol, 1,1-dimethylalkyl derivatives (generic).
721.10905 Butanedioic acid, 2-methylene-, dialkyl ester (generic).
721.10906 Magnesium alkaryl sulfonate (generic).
721.10907 Polyfluorohydrocarbon (generic).
721.10908 Aluminum calcium oxide salt (generic).
721.10909 Polyalkyltrisiloxane (generic).
721.10910 Oxirane, 2,2[min]-[[1-[4-[1-methyl-1-[4-(2- 
          oxiranylmethoxy)phenyl] ethyl]phenyl]ethylidene] bis(4,1-
          phenyleneoxymethylene)]bis- (P-15-356, Chemical A).
721.10911 2-Propanol, 1,3-bis[4-[1-[4 -[1-methyl-1-[4-(2-
          oxiranylmethoxy) phenyl]ethyl]phenyl]-1-[4-(2-
          oxiranylmethoxy)phenyl]ethyl]phenoxy]- (P-15-356, Chemical B).
721.10912 Aliphatic acrylate (generic).
721.10913 Diisocyanato hexane, homopolymer, alkanoic acid-polyalkylene 
          glycol ether with substituted alkane (3:1) reaction products-
          blocked (generic).
721.10914 Polyitaconic acid, sodium zinc salt (generic).
721.10915 Fatty acid esters with polyols polyalkyl ethers (generic).
721.10916 2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-amino-3-[substituted] -5-
          hydroxy-6-[(1E)-2 -phenyldiazenyl]-, lithium salt (1:3) 
          (generic).
721.10917 Polymethylsiloxane, distillation residues (generic).
721.10918 Perfluorobutanesulfonamide and polyoxyalkylene containing 
          polyurethane (generic).
721.10919 Quaternary ammonium compounds, (3-chloro-2-hydroxypropyl) coco 
          alkyldimethyl, chlorides.
721.10920 Modified diphenylmethane diisocyanate prepolymer with polyol 
          (generic).
721.10921 2-Furancarboxyaldehyde, 5-(chloromethyl)-.
721.10922 1,2,4,5,7,8-Hexoxonane, 3,6,9-trimethyl-, 3,6,9-tris(alkyl) 
          derivs. (generic).
721.10923 9-Octadecen-1-amine, hydrochloride (1:1), (9Z)-.
721.10924 Vegetable fatty acid alkyl esters (generic).

    Authority: 15 U.S.C. 2604, 2607, and 2625(c).


<R04>
                      Subpart A_General Provisions


<R05>
Sec. 721.1  Scope and applicability.

    (a) This part identifies uses of chemical substances, except for 
microorganisms regulated under part 725 of this chapter, which EPA has 
determined are significant new uses under the authority of section 
5(a)(2) of the Toxic Substances Control Act. In addition, it specifies 
procedures for manufacturers, importers, and processors to report on 
those significant new uses. This subpart A contains general provisions 
applicable to this part. Subpart B of this part identifies generic 
requirements for certain significant new uses cross referenced in 
specific provisions of subpart E of this part. Subpart C of this part 
identifies generic reporting requirements for certain significant new 
uses cross referenced in specific provisions of subpart E of this part. 
Subpart E of this part identifies chemical substances and their 
significant new uses.
    (b) This subpart A contains provisions governing submission and 
review of notices for the chemical substances and significant new uses 
identified in subpart E of this part. The provisions of this subpart A 
apply to the chemical substances and significant new uses identified in 
subpart E of this part, except to the extent that they are specifically 
modified or supplanted by specific requirements in subpart E of this 
part. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this subpart 
A and the provisions of subpart E of this part, the provisions of 
subpart E of this part shall govern.
    (c) The provisions of part 720 of this chapter apply to this part 
721. For purposes of this part 721, wherever the phrase ``new chemical 
substance'' appears in part 720 of this chapter, it shall mean the 
chemical substance subject to this part 721. In the event of a conflict 
between the provisions of part 720 of this chapter and the provisions of 
this part 721, the provisions of this part 721 shall govern.

[53 FR 28358, July 27, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 17932, Apr. 11, 1997]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3  Definitions.

    The definitions in section 3 of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2602, and Sec. 
720.3 of this

[[Page 182]]

chapter apply to this part. In addition, the following definitions apply 
to this part:
    Acutely toxic effects A chemical substance produces acutely toxic 
effects if it kills within a short time period (usually 14 days):
    (1) At least 50 percent of the exposed mammalian test animals 
following oral administration of a single dose of the test substance at 
25 milligrams or less per kilogram of body weight (LD<INF>50</INF>).
    (2) At least 50 percent of the exposed mammalian test animals 
following dermal administration of a single dose of the test substance 
at 50 milligrams or less per kilogram of body weight (LD<INF>50</INF>).
    (3) At least 50 percent of the exposed mammalian test animals 
following administration of the test substance for 8 hours or less by 
continuous inhalation at a steady concentration in air at 0.5 milligrams 
or less per liter of air (LC<INF>50</INF>).
    CAS Number means Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number assigned 
to a chemical substance on the Inventory.
    Chemical name means the scientific designation of a chemical 
substance in accordance with the nomenclature system developed by the 
International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry or the Chemical 
Abstracts Service's rules of nomenclature, or a name which will clearly 
identify a chemical substance for the purpose of conducting a hazard 
evaluation.
    Chemical protective clothing means items of clothing that provide a 
protective barrier to prevent dermal contact with chemical substances of 
concern. Examples can include, but are not limited to: full body 
protective clothing, boots, coveralls, gloves, jackets, and pants.
    Commercial use means the use of a chemical substance or any mixture 
containing the chemical substance in a commercial enterprise providing 
saleable goods or a service to consumers (e.g., a commercial dry 
cleaning establishment or painting contractor).
    Common name means any designation or identification such as code 
name, code number, trade name, brand name, or generic chemical name used 
to identify a chemical substance other than by its chemical name.
    Consumer means a private individual who uses a chemical substance or 
any product containing the chemical substance in or around a permanent 
or temporary household or residence, during recreation, or for any 
personal use or enjoyment.
    Consumer product means a chemical substance that is directly, or as 
part of a mixture, sold or made available to consumers for their use in 
or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, in or around 
a school, or in recreation.
    Customer means any person to whom a manufacturer, importer, or 
processor distributes any quantity of a chemical substance, or of a 
mixture containing the chemical substance, whether or not a sale is 
involved.
    Director of the Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics means the 
Director of the EPA Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics or any EPA 
employee delegated by the Office Director to carry out the Office 
Director's functions under this part.
    Employer means any manufacturer, importer, processor, or user of 
chemical substances or mixtures.
    Environmentally transformed A chemical substance is 
``environmentally transformed'' when its chemical structure changes as a 
result of the action of environmental processes on it.
    Facility means all buildings, equipment, structures, and other 
stationary items which are located on a single site or on contiguous or 
adjacent sites and which are owned or operated by the same person (or by 
any person which controls, is controlled by, or under common control 
with such person).
    Identity means any chemical or common name used to identify a 
chemical substance or a mixture containing that substance.
    Immediate use A chemical substance is for the ``immediate use'' of a 
person if it is under the control of, and used only by, the person who 
transferred it from a labeled container and will only be used by that 
person within the work shift in which it is transferred from the labeled 
container.

[[Page 183]]

    Impervious Chemical protective clothing is ``impervious'' to a 
chemical substance if the substance causes no chemical or mechanical 
degradation, permeation, or penetration of the chemical protective 
clothing under the conditions of, and the duration of, exposure.
    Manufacturing stream means all reasonably anticipated transfer, 
flow, or disposal of a chemical substance, regardless of physical state 
or concentration, through all intended operations of manufacture, 
including the cleaning of equipment.
    Metalworking fluid means a liquid of any viscosity or color 
containing intentionally added water and used in metal machining 
operations for the purpose of cooling, lubricating, or rust inhibition.
    MSDS means material safety data sheet, the written listing of data 
for the chemical substance as required under Sec. 721.72(c).
    NIOSH means the National Institute for Occupational Safety and 
Health of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
    Non-enclosed process means any equipment system (such as an open-top 
reactor, storage tank, or mixing vessel) in which a chemical substance 
is manufactured, processed, or otherwise used where significant direct 
contact of the bulk chemical substance and the workplace air may occur.
    Non-industrial use means use other than at a facility where chemical 
substances or mixtures are manufactured, imported, or processed.
    Personal protective equipment means any chemical protective clothing 
or device placed on the body to prevent contact with, and exposure to, 
an identified chemical substance or substances in the work area. 
Examples include, but are not limited to, chemical protective clothing, 
aprons, hoods, chemical goggles, face splash shields, or equivalent eye 
protection, and various types of respirators. Barrier creams are not 
included in this definition.
    Powder or dry solid form means a state where all or part of the 
substance would have the potential to become fine, loose, solid 
particles.
    Principal importer means the first importer who, knowing that a 
chemical substance will be imported for a significant new use rather 
than manufactured in the United States, specifies the chemical substance 
and the amount to be imported. Only persons who are incorporated, 
licensed, or doing business in the United States may be principal 
importers.
    Process for commercial purposes means the preparation of a chemical 
substance or mixture containing the chemical substance, after 
manufacture of the substance, for distribution in commerce with the 
purpose of obtaining an immediate or eventual commercial advantage for 
the processor. Processing of any amount of a chemical substance or 
mixture containing the chemical substance is included in this 
definition. If a chemical substance or mixture containing impurities is 
processed for commercial purposes, the impurities also are processed for 
commercial purposes.
    Process solely for export means to process for commercial purposes 
solely for export from the United States under the following 
restrictions on activity in the United States: Processing must be 
performed at sites under the control of the processor; distribution in 
commerce is limited to purposes of export; and the processor may not use 
the chemical substance except in small quantities solely for research 
and development.
    Process stream means all reasonably anticipated transfer, flow, or 
disposal of a chemical substance, regardless of physical state or 
concentration, through all intended operations of processing, including 
the cleaning of equipment.
    Recipient means any person who purchases or otherwise obtains a 
chemical substance directly from a person who manufacturers, imports, or 
processes the substance.
    Serious acute effects means human injury or human disease processes 
that have a short latency period for development, result from short-term 
exposure to a chemical substance, or are a combination of these factors 
and which are likely to result in death or severe or prolonged 
incapacitation.
    Serious chronic effects means human injury or human disease 
processes that have a long latency period for development, result from 
long-term exposure

[[Page 184]]

to a chemical substance, or are a combination of these factors and which 
are likely to result in death or severe or prolonged incapacitation.
    Short-term test indicative of carcinogenic potential means either 
any limited bioassay that measures tumor or preneoplastic induction, or 
any test indicative of interaction of a chemical substance with DNA 
(i.e., positive response in assays for gene mutation, chromosomal 
aberrations, DNA damage and repair, or cellular transformation).
    Short-term test indicative of the potential to cause a 
developmentally toxic effect means either any in vivo preliminary 
development toxicity screen conducted in a mammalian species, or any in 
vitro developmental toxicity screen, including any test system other 
than the intact pregnant mammal, that has been extensively evaluated and 
judged reliable for its ability to predict the potential to cause 
developmentally toxic effects in intact systems across a broad range of 
chemicals or within a class of chemicals that includes the substance of 
concern.
    Significant adverse environmental effects means injury to the 
environment by a chemical substance which reduces or adversely affects 
the productivity, utility, value, or function of biological, commercial, 
or agricultural resources, or which may adversely affect a threatened or 
endangered species. A substance will be considered to have the potential 
for significant adverse environmental effects if it has one of the 
following:
    (1) An acute aquatic EC<INF>50</INF> of 1 mg/L or less.
    (2) An acute aquatic EC<INF>50</INF> of 20 mg/L or less where the 
ratio of aquatic vertebrate 24-hour to 48-hour EC<INF>50</INF> is 
greater than or equal to 2.0.
    (3) A Maximum Acceptable Toxicant Concentration (MATC) of less than 
or equal to 100 parts per billion (100 ppb).
    (4) An acute aquatic EC<INF>50</INF> of 20 mg/L or less coupled with 
either a measured bioconcentration factor (BCF) equal to or greater than 
1,000x or in the absence of bioconcentration data a log P value equal to 
or greater than 4.3.
    Site means a contiguous property unit. Property divided only by a 
public right-of-way is one site. There may be more than one 
manufacturing plant on a single site.
    Site-limited intermediate means an intermediate manufactured, 
processed, and used only within a site and not distributed in commerce 
other than as an impurity or for disposal. Imported intermediates cannot 
be ``site-limited.''
    Spray application means any method of projecting a jet of vapor of 
finely divided liquid onto a surface to be coated; whether by compressed 
air, hydraulic pressure, electrostatic forces, or other methods of 
generating a spray.
    Use stream means all reasonably anticipated transfer, flow, or 
disposal of a chemical substance, regardless of physical state or 
concentration, through all intended operations of industrial, 
commercial, or consumer use.
    Waters of the United States has the meaning set forth in 40 CFR 
122.2.
    Work area means a room or defined space in a workplace where a 
chemical substance is manufactured, processed, or used and where 
employees are present.
    Workplace means an establishment at one geographic location 
containing one or more work areas.

[53 FR 28358, July 27, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 31306, July 27, 1989; 
58 FR 63516, Dec. 1, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5  Persons who must report.

    (a) The following persons must submit a significant new use notice 
as specified under the provisions of section 5(a)(1)(B) of the Act, part 
720 of this chapter, and Sec. 721.25:
    (1) A person who intends to manufacture, import, or process for 
commercial purposes a chemical substance identified in a specific 
section in subpart E of this part, and intends to engage in a 
significant new use of the substance identified in that section.
    (2) A person who intends to manufacture, import, or process for 
commercial purposes a chemical substance identified in a specific 
section in subpart E of this part, and intends to distribute the 
substance in commerce. A person described in this paragraph is not 
required to submit a significant new use notice if that person can 
document one

[[Page 185]]

or more of the following as to each recipient of the substance from that 
person:
    (i) That the person has notified the recipient, in writing, of the 
specific section in subpart E of this part which identifies the 
substance and its designated significant new uses.
    (ii) That the recipient has knowledge of the specific section in 
subpart E of this part which identifies the substance and its designated 
significant new uses.
    (iii) That the recipient cannot undertake any significant new use 
described in the specific section in subpart E of this part.
    (b) A person described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section must 
submit a significant new use notice if that person has knowledge at the 
time of commercial distribution of the substance identified in the 
specific section in subpart E of this part that a recipient intends to 
engage in a designated significant new use of that substance without 
submitting a notice under this part.
    (c) A person who processes a chemical substance identified in a 
specific section in subpart E of this part for a significant new use of 
that substance is not required to submit a significant new use notice if 
that person can document each of the following:
    (1) That the person does not know the specific chemical identity of 
the chemical substance being processed.
    (2) That the person is processing the chemical substance without 
knowledge that the substance is identified in subpart E of this part.
    (d)(1) If at any time after commencing distribution in commerce of a 
chemical substance identified in a specific section in subpart E of this 
part a person described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section has 
knowledge that a recipient of the substance is engaging in a significant 
new use of that substance designated in that section without submitting 
a notice under this part, the person is required to cease supplying the 
chemical substance to that recipient and to submit a significant new use 
notice for that chemical substance and significant new use, unless the 
person is able to document each of the following:
    (i) That the person has notified the recipient and EPA enforcement 
authorities (at the address in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section), 
in writing within 15 working days of the time the person develops 
knowledge that the recipient is engaging in a significant new use, that 
the recipient is engaging in a significant new use without submitting a 
significant new use notice.
    (ii) That, within 15 working days of notifying the recipient as 
described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, the person received 
from the recipient, in writing, a statement of assurance that the 
recipient is aware of the terms of the applicable section in subpart E 
of this part and will not engage in the significant new use.
    (iii) That the person has promptly provided EPA enforcement 
authorities with a copy of the recepient's statement of assurance 
described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section. The copy must be sent 
to the Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance, Office of 
Compliance (2224A), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Ariel Rios, 
1200 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W., Washington, DC, 20044.
    (2) If EPA notifies the manufacturer, importer, or processor that 
the recipient is engaging in a significant new use after providing the 
statement of assurance described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section 
and without submitting a notice under this part, the manufacturer, 
importer, or processor shall immediately cease distribution to that 
recipient until the manufacturer, importer, or processor or the 
recipient has submitted a significant new use notice under this part and 
the notice review period has ended.
    (3) If, after receiving a statement of assurance from a recipient 
under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, a manufacturer, importer, or 
processor has knowledge that the recipient is engaging in a significant 
new use without submitting a notice under this part, the manufacturer, 
importer, or processor must immediately cease distributing the substance 
to that recipient and notify EPA enforcement authorities at the address 
identified in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section. The manufacturer, 
importer, or processor may not resume distribution to that recipient 
until any one of the following has occurred:

[[Page 186]]

    (i) The manufacturer, importer, or processor has submitted a 
significant new use notice under this part and the notice review period 
has ended.
    (ii) The recipient has submitted a significant new use notice under 
this part and the notice review period has ended.
    (iii) The manufacturer, importer, or processor has received notice 
from EPA enforcement authorities that it may resume distribution to that 
recipient.
    (e) Any significant new use notice relating to import of a substance 
must be submitted by the principal importer.

[53 FR 28359, July 27, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 34464, July 3, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.11  Applicability determination when the specific chemical
identity is confidential.

    (a) A person who intends to manufacture (including import) or 
process a chemical substance which is described by a generic chemical 
name in subpart E of this part may ask EPA whether the substance is 
subject to the requirements of this part. EPA will answer such an 
inquiry only if EPA determines that the person has a bona fide intent to 
manufacture (including import) or process the chemical substance for 
commercial purposes.
    (b) To establish a bona fide intent to manufacture (including 
import) or process a chemical substance, the person who proposes to 
manufacture (including import) or process the substance must submit the 
request to EPA via CDX. Prior to submission to EPA via CDX, such bona 
fide intents to manufacture (including import) or process must be 
generated and completed using e-PMN software. See 40 CFR 
720.40(a)(2)(ii) for information on how to access the e-PMN software. A 
bona fide intent to manufacture (including import) or process must 
contain:
    (1) The specific chemical identity of the chemical substance that 
the person intends to manufacture (including import) or process.
    (2) A signed statement that the person intends to manufacture 
(including import) or process the chemical substance for commercial 
purposes.
    (3) A description of the research and development activities 
conducted to date, and the purpose for which the person will manufacture 
(including import) or process the chemical substance.
    (4) An elemental analysis.
    (5) Either an X-ray diffraction pattern (for inorganic substances), 
a mass spectrum (for most other substances), or an infrared spectrum of 
the particular chemical substance, or, if such data do not resolve 
uncertainties with respect to the identity of the chemical substance, 
additional or alternative spectra or other data to identify the 
substance.
    (c) If an importer or processor cannot provide all the information 
required in paragraph (b) of this section because it is claimed as 
confidential business information by the importer's or processor's 
manufacturer or supplier, the manufacturer or supplier may supply the 
information directly to EPA.
    (d) EPA will review the information submitted by the manufacturer 
(including importer) or processor under paragraph (b) of this section to 
determine whether that person has shown a bona fide intent to 
manufacture (including import) or process the chemical substance. If 
necessary, EPA will compare this information to the information 
requested for the confidential chemical substance under Sec. 
720.85(b)(3)(iii) of this chapter.
    (e) If the manufacturer (including importer) or processor has shown 
a bona fide intent to manufacture (including import) or process the 
substance and has provided sufficient unambiguous chemical identity 
information to enable EPA to make a conclusive determination as to the 
identity of the substance, EPA will inform the manufacturer (including 
importer) or processor whether the chemical substance is subject to this 
part and, if so, which section in subpart E of this part applies.
    (f) A disclosure to a person with a bona fide intent to manufacture 
(including import) or process a particular chemical substance that the 
substance is subject to this part will not be considered public 
disclosure of confidential business information under section 14 of the 
Act.
    (g) EPA will answer an inquiry on whether a particular chemical 
substance is subject to this part within 30

[[Page 187]]

days after receipt of a complete submission under paragraph (b) of this 
section.

[53 FR 28359, July 27, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 34464, July 3, 1995; 71 
FR 33641, June 12, 2006; 80 FR 42746, July 20, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.20  Exports and imports.

    Persons who intend to export a chemical substance identified in 
subpart E of this part, or in any proposed rule which would amend 
subpart E of this part, are subject to the export notification 
provisions of section 12(b) of the Act. The regulations that interpret 
section 12(b) appear at 40 CFR part 707. Persons who import a substance 
identified in a specific section in subpart E of this part are subject 
to the import certification requirements under section 13 of the Act, 
which are codified at 19 CFR 12.118 through 12.127 and 127.28. The EPA 
policy in support of the import certification requirements appears at 40 
CFR part 707.

[53 FR 28360, July 27, 1988]


<R05>
Sec. 721.25  Notice requirements and procedures.

    (a) Each person who is required to submit a significant new use 
notice under this part must submit the notice at least 90 calendar days 
before commencing manufacture, import, or processing of a chemical 
substance identified in subpart E of this part for a significant new 
use. The submitter must comply with any applicable requirement of 
section 5(b) of the Act, and the notice must include the information and 
test data specified in section 5(d)(1) of the Act. The notice must be 
submitted on EPA Form 7710-25, and must comply with the requirements of 
part 720 of this chapter, except to the extent that they are 
inconsistent with this part 721.
    (b) If two or more persons are required to submit a significant new 
use notice for the same chemical substance and significant new use 
identified in subpart E of this part, they may submit a joint notice to 
EPA. Persons submitting a joint notice must individually complete the 
certification section of part I of the required notification form. 
Persons who are required to submit individually, but elect to submit 
jointly, remain individually liable for the failure to submit required 
information which is known to or reasonably ascertainable by them and 
test data in their possession or control.
    (c) EPA will process the notice in accordance with the procedures of 
part 720 of this chapter, except to the extent they are inconsistent 
with this part.
    (d) Any person submitting a significant new use notice in response 
to the requirements of this part 721 shall not manufacture, import, or 
process a chemical substance identified in subpart E of this part for a 
significant new use until the notice review period, including all 
extensions and suspensions, has expired.

[53 FR 28360, July 27, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 16311, Mar. 29, 1995; 
75 FR 787, Jan. 6, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.30  EPA approval of alternative control measures.

    (a) In certain sections of subpart E of this part, significant new 
uses for the identified substances are described as the failure to 
establish and implement programs providing for the use of either: 
specific measures to control worker exposure to or release of substances 
which are identified in such sections, or alternative measures to 
control worker exposure or environmental release which EPA has 
determined provide substantially the same degree of protection as the 
specified control measures. Persons who manufacture, import, or process 
a chemical substance identified in such sections and who intend to 
employ alternative measures to control worker exposure or environmental 
release must submit a request to EPA for a determination of equivalency 
before commencing manufacture, import, or processing involving the 
alternative control measures.
    (b) Persons submitting a request for a determination of equivalency 
to EPA under this part must submit the request to EPA via CDX using e-
PMN software in the manner set forth in 40 CFR 720.40(a)(2)(i). See 40 
CFR 720.40(a)(2)(ii) for information on how to obtain e-PMN software. 
Support documents related to these requests must be submitted in the 
manner set forth in 40 CFR 720.40(c). A request for

[[Page 188]]

a determination of equivalency must contain:
    (1) The name of the submitter.
    (2) The specific chemical identity of the substance.
    (3) The citation for the specific section in subpart E of this part 
which pertains to the substance for which the request is being 
submitted.
    (4) A detailed description of the activities involved.
    (5) The specifications of the alternative worker exposure control 
measures or environmental release control measures.
    (6) An analysis justifying why such alternative control measures 
provide substantially the same degree of protection as the specific 
control measures identified in the specific section in subpart E of this 
part which pertains to the substance for which the request is being 
submitted.
    (7) The data and information described in Sec. 720.50 (a) and (b) 
of this chapter unless such data and information have already been 
submitted to the Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, EPA.
    (c) Requests for determinations of equivalency will be reviewed by 
EPA within 45 days. Determinations under this paragraph will be made by 
the Director, Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, or designee. 
Notice of the results of such determinations will be mailed to the 
submitter.
    (d) If EPA notifies the submitter under paragraph (c) of this 
section that EPA has determined that the alternative control measures 
provide substantially the same degree of protection as the specified 
control measures identified in the specified section of subpart E of 
this part which pertains to the substance for which the request is being 
submitted, the submitter may commence manufacture, import, or processing 
in accordance with the specifications for alternative worker exposure 
control measures or environmental release control measures identified in 
the submitter's request, and may alter any corresponding notification to 
workers to reflect such alternative controls. Deviations from the 
activities described in the EPA notification constitute a significant 
new use and are subject to the requirements of this part.

[53 FR 28360, July 27, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 34464, July 3, 1995; 71 
FR 33641, June 12, 2006; 75 FR 787, Jan. 6, 2010; 78 FR 72827, Dec. 4, 
2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.35  Compliance and enforcement.

    (a) Failure to comply with any provision of this part is a violation 
of section 15(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614).
    (b) Using for commercial purposes a chemical substance which a 
person knew or had reason to know was manufactured, imported, or 
processed in violation of this part is a violation of section 15(2) of 
the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614).
    (c) Failure or refusal to permit access to or copying of records, as 
required by section 11 of the Act, is a violation of section 15(3) of 
the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614).
    (d) Failure or refusal to permit entry or inspection, as required by 
section 11 of the Act, is a violation of section 15(4) of the Act.
    (e) Violators of the Act or of this part may be subject to the civil 
and criminal penalties in section 16 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2615) for 
each violation. The submission of false or misleading information in 
connection with the requirement of any provision of this part may 
subject persons to penalties calculated as if they never filed a notice.
    (f) Under the authority of sections 7 and 17 of the Act, EPA may:
    (1) Seek to enjoin the manufacture, import, or processing of a 
chemical substance in violation of this part.
    (2) Act to seize any chemical substance which is being manufactured, 
imported, or processed in violation of this part.
    (3) Take any other appropriate action.

[53 FR 28361, July 27, 1988]


<R05>
Sec. 721.40  Recordkeeping.

    Any person subject to the requirements of this part must retain 
documentation of information contained in that person's significant new 
use notice. This documentation must be maintained for a period of 5 
years from the date of the submission of the significant new use notice.

[53 FR 28361, July 27, 1988]

[[Page 189]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.45  Exemptions.

    The persons identified in Sec. 721.5 are not subject to the 
notification requirements of Sec. 721.25 for a chemical substance 
identified in subpart E of this part, unless otherwise specified in a 
specific section in subpart E, if:
    (a) The person has applied for and has been granted an exemption for 
test marketing the substance for a significant new use identified in 
subpart E of this part in accordance with section 5(h)(1) of the Act and 
Sec. 720.38 of this chapter.
    (b) The person manufactures, imports, or processes the substance for 
a significant new use identified in subpart E of this part in small 
quantities solely for research and development in accordance with Sec. 
721.47.
    (c) The person has applied for and been granted an exemption under 
section 5(h)(5) of the Act.
    (d) The person manufactures, imports, or processes the substance 
only as an impurity.
    (e) The person manufactures, imports, or processes the substance 
only as a byproduct which is used only by public or private 
organizations that (1) burn it as a fuel, (2) dispose of it as a waste, 
including in a landfill or for enriching soil, or (3) extract component 
chemical substances from it for commercial purposes.
    (f) The person imports or processes the substance as part of an 
article.
    (g) The person manufactures or processes the substance solely for 
export and, when distributing the substance in commerce, labels the 
substance in accordance with section 12(a)(1)(B) of the Act.
    (h) The person submits a significant new use notice for the 
substance prior to the promulgation date of the section in subpart E of 
this part which identifies the substance, and the person receives 
written notification of compliance from EPA prior to the effective date 
of such section. The notice submitter must comply with any applicable 
requirement of section 5(b) of the Act. The notice must include the 
information and test data specified in section 5(d)(1) of the Act and 
must be submitted on the notice form in Appendix A to part 720 of this 
chapter. For purposes of this exemption, the specific section in subpart 
E of this part which identifies the substance and Sec. Sec. 721.1, 
721.3, 721.11, 721.35, and 721.40 apply; after the effective date of the 
section in subpart E of this part which identifies the substance, Sec. 
721.5 applies and Sec. 721.20 continues to apply. EPA will provide the 
notice submitter with written notification of compliance only if one of 
the following occurs:
    (1) EPA is unable to make the finding that the activities described 
in the significant new use notice will or may present an unreasonable 
risk of injury to health or the environment under reasonably foreseeable 
circumstances.
    (2) EPA and the person negotiate a consent order under section 5(e) 
of the Act, such order to take effect on the effective date of the 
section in subpart E of this part which identifies the substance.
    (i) The person is operating under the terms of a consent order 
issued under section 5(e) of the Act applicable to that person. If a 
provision of such section 5(e) order is inconsistent with a specific 
significant new use identified in subpart E of this part, abiding by the 
provision of the section 5(e) order exempts the person from submitting a 
significant new use notice for that specific significant new use.

[53 FR 28361, July 27, 1988]


<R05>
Sec. 721.47  Conditions for research and development exemption.

    (a) A person who manufactures, imports, or processes a chemical 
substance identifies in subpart E of this part for a significant new use 
identified in subpart E of this part is not subject to the notification 
requirements of Sec. 721.25 if the following conditions are met:
    (1) The person manufactures, imports, or processes the substance for 
the significant new use in small quantities solely for research and 
development.
    (2) The manufacturer, importer, or processor notifies all persons in 
its employ or to whom it directly distributes the chemical substance, 
who are engaged in experimentation, research, or analysis on the 
chemical substance, including the manufacture, processing, use, 
transport, storage, and disposal of the substance associated with 
research

[[Page 190]]

and development activities, of any risk to health, identified under 
paragraph (b) of this section, which may be associated with the 
substance. The notification must be made in accordance with paragraph 
(c) of this section.
    (3) The chemical substance is used by, or directly under the 
supervision of, a technically qualified individual.
    (b)(1) To determine whether notification under paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section is required, the manufacturer, importer, or processor must 
review and evaluate the following information to determine whether there 
is reason to believe there is any risk to health which may be associated 
with the chemicals substance:
    (i) Information in its possession or control concerning any 
significant adverse reaction by persons exposed to the chemical 
substance which may reasonably be associated with such exposure.
    (ii) Information provided to the manufacturer, importer, or 
processor by a supplier or any other person concerning a health risk 
believed to be associated with the substance.
    (iii) Health and environmental effects data in its possession or 
control concerning the substance.
    (iv) Information on health effects which accompanies any EPA rule or 
order issued under section 4, 5, or 6 of the Act that applies to the 
substance and of which the manufacturer, importer, or processor has 
knowledge.
    (2) When the research and development activity is conducted solely 
in a laboratory and exposure to the chemical substance is controlled 
through the implementation of prudent laboratory practices for handling 
chemical substances of unknown toxicity, and any distribution, except 
for purposes of disposal, is to other such laboratories for further 
research and development activity, the information specified in 
paragraph (b)(1) of this section need not be reviewed and evaluated. 
(For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2), a laboratory is defined as a 
contained research facility where relatively small quantities of 
chemical substances are used on a pro-production basis, and where 
activities involve the use of containers for reactions, transfers, and 
other handling of substances designed to be easily manipulated by a 
single individual).
    (c)(1) The manufacturer, importer, or processor must notify the 
persons identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section by means of a 
container labeling system, conspicuous placement of notices in areas 
where exposure may occur, written notification to each person 
potentially exposed, or any other method of notification which 
adequately informs persons of health risks which the manufacturer, 
importer, or processor has reason to believe may be associated with the 
substance, as determined under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
    (2) If the manufacturer, importer, or processor distributes a 
chemical substance manufactured, imported, or processed under this 
section to persons not in its employ, the manufacturer, importer, or 
processor must in written form:
    (i) Notify those persons that the substance is to be used only for 
research and development purposes.
    (ii) Provide the notice of health risks specified in paragraph 
(c)(1) of this section.
    (3) The adequacy of any notification under this section is the 
responsibility of the manufacturer, importer, or processor.
    (d) Quantities of the chemical substance, or of mixtures or articles 
containing the chemical substance, remaining after completion of 
research and development activities may be:
    (1) Disposed of as a waste in accordance with applicable Federal, 
State, and local regulations, to the extent the disposal activity is not 
identified as a significant new use for the substance in subpart E of 
this part, or
    (2) Used for a commercial purpose, to the extent the use is not 
identified as a significant new use of the substance in subpart E of 
this part.
    (e)(1) Persons who manufacture, import, or process a chemical 
substance under this section must retain the following records:
    (i) Copies of or citations to information reviewed and evaluated 
under paragraph (b)(1) of this section to determine the need to make any 
notification of risk.
    (ii) Documentation of the nature and method of notification under 
paragraph

[[Page 191]]

(c)(1) of this section including copies of any labels or written notices 
used.
    (iii) Documentation of prudent laboratory practices used instead of 
notification and evaluation under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
    (iv) The names and addresses of any persons other than the 
manufacturer, importer, or processor to whom the substance is 
distributed, the identity of the substance, the amount distributed, and 
copies of the notifications required under paragraph (c)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) [Reserved]

[53 FR 28361, July 27, 1988, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R04>
                 Subpart B_Certain Significant New Uses

    Source: 54 FR 31308, July 27, 1989, unless otherwise noted.


<R05>
Sec. 721.50  Applicability.

    This subpart B identifies certain significant new uses of chemical 
substances identified in subpart E of this part. The provisions of this 
subpart B apply only when referenced as applying to a chemical substance 
identified in subpart E of this part.


<R05>
Sec. 721.63  Protection in the workplace.

    (a) Whenever a substance is identified in subpart E of this part as 
being subject to this section, a significant new use of the substance is 
any manner or method of manufacturing, importing, or processing 
associated with any use of the substance without establishing a program 
whereby:
    (1) Each person who is reasonably likely to be dermally exposed in 
the work area to the chemical substance through direct handling of the 
substance or through contact with equipment on which the substance may 
exist, or because the substance becomes airborne in the form listed in 
paragraph (a)(6) of this section, and cited in subpart E of this part 
for the chemical substance, is provided with, and is required to wear, 
personal protective equipment that provides a barrier to prevent dermal 
exposure to the substance in the specific work area where it is selected 
for use. Each such item of personal protective equipment must be 
selected and used in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.132 and 1910.133.
    (2) In addition to any other personal protective equipment selected 
in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the following items are required:
    (i) Gloves.
    (ii) Full body chemical protective clothing.
    (iii) Chemical goggles or equivalent eye protection.
    (iv) Clothing which covers any other exposed areas of the arms, 
legs, and torso. Clothing provided under this paragraph need not be 
tested or evaluated under the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this 
section.
    (3) The employer is able to demonstrate that each item of chemical 
protective clothing, including gloves, selected provides an impervious 
barrier to prevent dermal exposure during normal and expected duration 
and conditions of exposure within the work area by any one or a 
combination of the following:
    (i) Testing the material used to make the chemical protective 
clothing and the construction of the clothing to establish that the 
protective clothing will be impervious for the expected duration and 
conditions of exposure. The testing must subject the chemical protective 
clothing to the expected conditions of exposure, including the likely 
combinations of chemical substances to which the clothing may be exposed 
in the work area.
    (ii) Evaluating the specifications from the manufacturer or supplier 
of the chemical protective clothing, or of the material used in 
construction of the clothing, to establish that the chemical protective 
clothing will be impervious to the chemical substance alone and in 
likely combination with other chemical substances in the work area.
    (4) Each person who is reasonably likely to be exposed to the 
chemical substance by inhalation in the work area in one or more of the 
forms listed in paragraph (a)(6) of this section and cited in subpart E 
of this part for the chemical substance, is provided with, and is 
required to wear, at a minimum, a NIOSH- approved respirator from one of 
the categories listed in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, and the 
respirator

[[Page 192]]

is used in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.134 and 30 CFR part 11.
    (5) The following NIOSH approved respirators meet the minimum 
requirements for paragraph (a)(4) of this section:
    (i) Category 19C Type C supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or other positive pressure mode and equipped with a full 
facepiece.
    (ii) Category 19C Type C supplied-air respirator operated in 
pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a tight-
fitting facepiece.
    (iii) Category 19C Type C supplied-air respirator operated in 
pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or 
helmet or tight-fitting facepiece.
    (iv) Category 21C air-purifying respirator equipped with a full 
facepiece and high efficiency particulate filters.
    (v) Category 21C powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece and high efficiency particulate filters.
    (vi) Category 21C powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate filters.
    (vii) Category 21C air-purifying respirator equipped with a high 
efficiency particulate filter including disposable respirators.
    (viii) Category 23C air-purifying respirator equipped with a full 
facepiece and combination cartridges approved for paints, lacquers, and 
enamels. (Approval label may preclude use for some paints, lacquers, or 
enamels.)
    (ix) Category 23C powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece and combination cartridges approved for paints, 
lacquers, and enamels. (Approval label may preclude use for some paints, 
lacquers, or enamels.)
    (x) Category 23C powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and combination cartridges approved for 
paints, lacquers, and enamels. (Approval label may preclude use for some 
paints, lacquers, or enamels.)
    (xi) Category 23C air-purifying respirator equipped with combination 
cartridges approved for paints, lacquers, and enamels, including 
disposable respirators. (Approval label may preclude use for some 
paints, lacquers, or enamels.)
    (xii) Category 23C air-purifying respirator equipped with a full 
facepiece and organic gas/vapor cartridges.
    (xiii) Category 23C powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece and organic gas/vapor cartridges.
    (xiv) Category 23C powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and organic gas/vapor cartridges.
    (xv) Category 23C air-purifying respirator equipped with organic 
gas/vapor cartridges, including disposable respirators.
    (6) When cited in subpart E of this part for a substance, the 
following airborne form(s) of the substance apply to paragraphs (a) (1) 
and (4) of this section:
    (i) Dust.
    (ii) Mist.
    (iii) Fume.
    (iv) Smoke.
    (v) Vapor.
    (vi) Gas.
    (b) If a substance identified in subpart E of this part is present 
in the work area only as a mixture, an employer is exempt from the 
provisions of this section if the concentration of the substance in the 
mixture does not exceed a concentration set in subpart E of this part. 
The exemption does not apply if the employer has reason to believe that 
during intended use or processing in the work area, the substance in the 
mixture may be concentrated above the level set in subpart E of this 
part.
    (c)(1) If at any time after commencing distribution in commerce of a 
chemical substance that is identified in subpart E of this part as 
subject to this section, the person has knowledge that a recipient of 
the substance is engaging in an activity that is not consistent with the 
implementation of a program specified in paragraph (a) of this section, 
the person is considered to have knowledge that the recipient is 
engaging in a significant new use and is required to follow the 
procedures in Sec. 721.5(d) unless the person is able to document the 
following:
    (i) That the person has notified the recipient in writing within 15 
working

[[Page 193]]

days of the time the person first has knowledge that the recipient is 
engaging in an activity that is not consistent with the implementation 
of a program specified in paragraph (a) of this section, and that the 
person has knowledge of the failure of implementation.
    (ii) That within 15 working days of notifying the recipient that the 
recipient is engaging in an activity that is not consistent with the 
implementation of a program specified in paragraph (a) of this section 
the person has received from the recipient, in writing, a statement of 
assurance that the recipient has established the program required under 
paragraph (a) of this section, and will take appropriate measures to 
avoid activities that are inconsistent with implementation of the 
program required under paragraph (a) of this section.
    (2) If, after receiving a statement of assurance from a recipient 
under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, a manufacturer, importer, or 
processor has knowledge that the recipient is engaging in an activity 
that is not consistent with the implementation of the program specified 
in paragraph (a) of this section, that person is considered to have 
knowledge that the person is engaging in a significant new use and is 
required to follow the procedures in Sec. 721.5(d).


<R05>
Sec. 721.72  Hazard communication program.

    Whenever a substance is identified in subpart E of this part as 
being subject to this section, a significant new use of that substance 
is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing associated 
with any use of that substance without establishing a hazard 
communication program as described in this section.
    (a) Written hazard communication program. Each employer shall 
develop and implement a written hazard communication program for the 
substance in each workplace. The written program will, at a minimum, 
describe how the requirements of this section for labels, MSDSs, and 
other forms of warning material will be satisfied. The employer must 
make the written hazard communication program available, upon request, 
to all employees, contractor employees, and their designated 
representatives. The employer may rely on an existing hazard 
communication program, including an existing program established under 
the Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA) Hazard 
Communication Standard (29 CFR 1900.1200), to comply with this paragraph 
provided that the existing hazard communication program satisfies the 
requirements of this paragraph. The written program shall include the 
following:
    (1) A list of each substance identified in subpart E of this part as 
subject to this section known to be present in the work area. The list 
must be maintained in the work area and must use the identity provided 
on the appropriate MSDS for each substance required under paragraph (c) 
of this section. The list may be compiled for the workplace or for 
individual work areas.
    (2) The methods the employer will use to inform employees of the 
hazards of non-routine tasks involving the substance, for example, the 
cleaning of reactor vessels, and the hazards associated with the 
substance contained in unlabeled pipes in their work area.
    (3) The methods the employer will use to inform contractors of the 
presence of the substance in the employer's workplace and of the 
provisions of this part applicable to the substance if employees of the 
contractor work in the employer's workplace and are reasonably likely to 
be exposed to the substance while in the employer's workplace.
    (b) Labeling. (1) Each employer shall ensure that each container of 
the substance in the workplace is labeled in accordance with this 
paragraph (b)(1).
    (i) The label shall, at a minimum, contain the following 
information:
    (A) A statement of health hazard(s) and precautionary measure(s) for 
the substance, if any, identified in subpart E of this part or by the 
employer.
    (B) The identity by which the substance may be commonly recognized.
    (C) A statement of environmental hazard(s) and precautionary 
measure(s) for the substance, if any, identified in subpart E of this 
part or by the employer.

[[Page 194]]

    (D) A statement of exposure and precautionary measure(s), if any, 
identified in subpart E of this part or by the employer.
    (ii) The employer may use signs, placards, process sheets, batch 
tickets, operating procedures, or other such written materials in lieu 
of affixing labels to individual stationary process containers, as long 
as the alternative method identifies the containers to which it is 
applicable and conveys information specified by paragraph (b)(1)(i) of 
this section. Any written materials must be readily accessible to the 
employees in their work areas throughout each work shift.
    (iii) The employer need not label portable containers into which the 
substance is transferred from labeled containers, and which are intended 
only for the immediate use of the employee who performs the transfer.
    (iv) The employer shall not remove or deface an existing label on 
incoming containers of the substance unless the container is immediately 
relabeled with the information specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this 
section.
    (2) Each employer shall ensure that each container of the substance 
leaving its workplace for distribution in commerce is labeled in 
accordance with this paragraph.
    (i) The label shall, at a minimum, contain the following 
information:
    (A) The information required under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this 
section.
    (B) The name and address of the manufacturer or a responsible party 
who can provide additional information on the substance for hazard 
evaluation and any appropriate emergency procedures.
    (ii) The label shall not conflict with the requirements of the 
Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (18 U.S.C. 1801 et. seq.) and 
regulations issued under that Act by the Department of Transportation.
    (3) The label, or alternative forms of warning, shall be legible and 
prominently displayed.
    (4) The label, or alternative forms of warning, shall be in English; 
however, the information may be repeated in other languages.
    (5) If the label or alternative form of warning is to be applied to 
a mixture containing a substance identified in subpart E of this part as 
subject to this section in combination with another substance identified 
in subpart E of this part and/or a substance defined as a ``hazardous 
chemical'' under the Occupational Safety and Health Administration 
(OSHA) Hazard Communication Standard (29 CFR 1900.1200), the employer 
may prescribe on the label, MSDS, or alternative form of warning, the 
measures to control worker exposure or environmental release which the 
employer determines provide the greatest degree of protection. However, 
should these control measures differ from the applicable measures 
required under subpart E of this part, the employer must seek a 
determination of equivalency for such alternative control measures 
pursuant to Sec. 721.30 before prescribing them under this paragraph.
    (c) Material safety data sheets. (1) Each employer must obtain or 
develop a MSDS for the substance.
    (2) Each MSDS shall contain, at a minimum, the following 
information:
    (i) The identity used on the container label of the substance under 
this section, and, if not claimed confidential, the chemical and common 
name of the substance. If the chemical and common name are claimed 
confidential, a generic chemical name must be used.
    (ii) Physical and chemical characteristics of the substance known to 
the employer (such as vapor pressure, flash point).
    (iii) The physical hazards of the substance known to the employer, 
including the potential for fire, explosion, and reactivity.
    (iv) The potential human and environmental hazards as specified in 
subpart E of this part for the substance.
    (v) Signs and symptoms of exposure, and any medical conditions which 
are expected to be aggravated by exposure to the substance known to the 
employer.
    (vi) The primary routes of exposure to the substance.
    (vii) Precautionary measures to control worker exposure and/or 
environmental release identified in subpart E of this part for the 
substance, or alternative control measures which EPA has determined 
under Sec. 721.30 provide

[[Page 195]]

substantially the same degree of protection as the identified control 
measures.
    (viii) Any generally applicable precautions for safe handling and 
use of the substance which are known to the employer, including 
appropriate hygienic practices, protective measures during repair and 
maintenance of contaminated equipment, and procedures for response to 
spills and leaks.
    (ix) Any generally applicable control measures which are known to 
the employer, such as appropriate engineering controls, work practices, 
or personal protective equipment.
    (x) Emergency first aid procedures known to the employer.
    (xi) The date of preparation of the MSDS or of its last revision.
    (xii) The name, address, and telephone number of the individual 
preparing or distributing the MSDS, or a responsible party who can 
provide additional information on the substance for hazard evaluation 
and any appropriate emergency procedures.
    (3) If no relevant information is found or known for any given 
category on the MSDS, the employer must mark the MSDS to indicate that 
no applicable information was found.
    (4) Where multiple mixtures containing the substance have similar 
compositions (i.e., the chemical ingredients are essentially the same, 
but the specific composition varies from mixture to mixture) and similar 
hazards, the employer may prepare one MSDS to apply to all of these 
multiple mixtures.
    (5) If the employer becomes aware of any significant new information 
regarding the hazards of the substance or ways to protect against the 
hazards, this new information must be added to the MSDS within 3 months 
from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If the 
substance is not currently being manufactured, imported, processed, or 
used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add the new 
information to the MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the 
workplace.
    (6) The employer must ensure that persons receiving the substance 
from the employer are provided an appropriate MSDS with their initial 
shipment and with the first shipment after an MSDS is revised. The 
employer may either provide the MSDS with the shipped containers or send 
it to the person prior to or at the time of shipment.
    (7) The employer must maintain a copy of the MSDS in its workplace, 
and must ensure that it is readily accessible during each work shift to 
employees when they are in their work areas.
    (8) The MSDS may be kept in any form, including as operating 
procedures, and may be designed to cover groups of substances in a work 
area where it may be more appropriate to address the potential hazards 
of a process rather than individual substances. However, in all cases, 
the required information must be provided for each substance and must be 
readily accessible during each work shift to employees when they are in 
their work areas.
    (9) The MSDS must be printed in English; however, the information 
may be repeated in other languages.
    (d) Employee information and training. Each employer must ensure 
that employees are provided with information and training on the 
substance identified in subpart E of this part. This information and 
training must be provided at the time of each employee's initial 
assignment to a work area containing the substance and whenever the 
substance subject to this section is introduced into the employee's work 
area for the first time.
    (1) Information provided to employees under this paragraph shall 
include:
    (i) The requirements of this section.
    (ii) Any operations in the work area where the substance is present.
    (iii) The location and availability of the written hazard 
communication program required under paragraph (a) of this section, 
including the list of substances identified in subpart E of this part as 
subject to this section, and MSDSs required by paragraph (c) of this 
section.
    (2) Training provided to employees shall include:
    (i) Methods and observations that may be used to detect the presence 
or release of the substance in or from an

[[Page 196]]

employee's work area (such as monitoring conducted by the employer, 
continuous monitoring devices, visual appearance, or odor of the 
substance when being released).
    (ii) The potential human health and environmental hazards of the 
substance as specified in subpart E of this part.
    (iii) The measures employees can take to protect themselves and the 
environment from the substance, including specific procedures the 
employer has implemented to protect employees and the environment from 
exposure to the substance, including appropriate work practices, 
emergency procedures, personal protective equipment, engineering 
controls, and other measures to control worker exposure and/or 
environmental release required under subpart E of the part, or 
alternative control measures which EPA has determined under Sec. 721.30 
provide substantially the same degree of protection as the specified 
control measures.
    (iv) The requirements of the hazard communication program developed 
by the employer under this section, including an explanation of the 
labeling system and the MSDS required by this section and guidance on 
obtaining and using appropriate hazard information.
    (e) Low concentrations in mixtures. If a substance identified in 
subpart E of this part is present in the work area only as a mixture, an 
employer is exempt from the provisions of this section if the 
concentration of the substance in the mixture does not exceed a 
concentration set in subpart E of this part. The exemption does not 
apply if the employer has reason to believe that during intended use or 
processing in the work area, the substance in the mixture may be 
concentrated above the level set in subpart E of this part.
    (f) Existing hazard communication program. The employer need not 
take additional actions if existing programs and procedures satisfy the 
requirements of this section.
    (g) Human health, environmental hazard, exposure, and precautionary 
statements. Whenever referenced in subpart E of this part for a 
substance, the following human health and environmental hazard, 
exposure, and precautionary statements shall appear on each label as 
specified in paragraph (b) of this section and the MSDS as specified in 
paragraph (c) of this section. Additional statements may be included as 
long as they are true and do not alter the meaning of the required 
statements.
    (1) Human health hazard statements: This substance may cause:
    (i) Skin irritation.
    (ii) Respiratory complications.
    (iii) Central nervous system effects.
    (iv) Internal organ effects.
    (v) Birth defects.
    (vi) Reproductive effects.
    (vii) Cancer.
    (viii) Immune system effects.
    (ix) Developmental effects.
    (2) Human health hazard precautionary statements: When using this 
substance:
    (i) Avoid skin contact.
    (ii) Avoid breathing substance.
    (iii) Avoid ingestion.
    (iv) Use respiratory protection.
    (v) Use skin protection.
    (3) Environmental hazard statements: This substance may be:
    (i) Toxic to fish.
    (ii) Toxic to aquatic organisms.
    (4) Environmental hazard precautionary statements: Notice to users:
    (i) Disposal restrictions apply.
    (ii) Spill clean-up restrictions apply.
    (iii) Do not release to water.
    (5) Each human health or environmental hazard precautionary 
statement identified in subpart E of this part for the label on the 
substance container must be followed by the statement, ``See MSDS for 
details.''
    (h) Human health, environmental hazard exposure and precautionary 
statements. (1) Whenever referenced in subpart E of this part for a 
substance, the following human health, environmental hazard, exposure, 
and precautionary statements shall appear on each label as specified in 
paragraph (b) of this section. Additional statements may be included as 
long as they are true and do not alter the meaning of the required 
statements.
    (i) Precautionary statements. (A) The health effects of this 
chemical substance have not been determined.
    (B) When using this substance, use skin protection.

[[Page 197]]

    (C) Use respiratory protection when there is a reasonable likelihood 
of exposure in the work area from dust, mist, or smoke from spray 
application.
    (D) Chemicals similar in structure to this substance have been found 
to cause cancer in laboratory animals.
    (ii) Human health hazard statements. This substance may cause:
    (A) Skin irritation
    (B) Respiratory complications
    (C) Central nervous system effects
    (D) Internal organ effects
    (E) Birth defects
    (F) Reproductive effects
    (G) Cancer
    (H) Immune system effects
    (I) Developmental effects
    (iii) Human health hazard precautionary statements. When using this 
substance:
    (A) Avoid skin contact
    (B) Avoid breathing substance
    (C) Avoid ingestion
    (D) Use respiratory protection
    (E) Use skin protection
    (iv) Environmental hazard statements. This substance may be:
    (A) Toxic to fish
    (B) Toxic to aquatic organisms
    (v) Environmental hazard precautionary statements. Notice to Users:
    (A) Disposal restrictions apply
    (B) Spill clean-up restrictions apply
    (C) Do not release to water.
    (vi) Additional statements. Each human health or environmental 
precautionary statement identified in subpart E of this part for the 
label on the substance container must be followed by the statement, 
``See MSDS for details.''
    (2) Whenever referenced in subpart E of this part for a substance, 
the following human health, environmental hazard, exposure, and 
precautionary statements shall appear on each MSDS as specified in 
paragraph (c) of this section. Additional statements may be included as 
long as they are true and do not alter the meaning of the required 
statements.
    (i) Precautionary statements. (A) The health effects of this 
chemical substance have not been determined.
    (B) When using this substance, use skin protection.
    (C) Use respiratory protection when there is a reasonable likelihood 
of exposure in the work area from dust, mist, or smoke from spray 
application.
    (D) Chemicals similar in structure to this substance have been found 
to cause cancer in laboratory animals.
    (ii) Human health hazard statements. This substance may cause:
    (A) Skin irritation
    (B) Respiratory complications
    (C) Central nervous system effects
    (D) Internal organ effects
    (E) Birth defects
    (F) Reproductive effects
    (G) Cancer
    (H) Immune system effects
    (I) Developmental effects
    (iii) Human health hazard precautionary statements. When using this 
substance:
    (A) Avoid skin contact
    (B) Avoid breathing substance
    (C) Avoid ingestion
    (D) Use respiratory protection
    (E) Use skin protection
    (iv) Environmental hazard statements. This substance may be:
    (A) Toxic to fish
    (B) Toxic to aquatic organisms
    (v) Environmental hazard precautionary statements. Notice to Users:
    (A) Disposal restrictions apply
    (B) Spill clean-up restrictions apply
    (C) Do not release to water.

[54 FR 31308, July 27, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 45996, Oct. 31, 1990; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.80  Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.

    Whenever a substance is identified in subpart E of this part as 
being subject to this section, a significant new use of the substance 
is:
    (a) Use in non-enclosed processes.
    (b) Any manner or method of manufacture in non-enclosed processes 
associated with any use.
    (c) Any manner or method of processing in non-enclosed processes 
associated with any use.
    (d) Use beyond the site of manufacture or import.
    (e) Processing beyond the site of manufacture or import.
    (f) Any manner or method of manufacture (excluding import) of the 
substance associated with any use.
    (g) Use other than as an intermediate.

[[Page 198]]

    (h) Use other than as a site-limited intermediate.
    (i) Use as an intermediate where the concentration of the 
intermediate substance in the product intended for distribution in 
commerce exceeds the concentration specified in subpart E of this part 
for the substance.
    (j) Use other than as described in the premanufacture notice 
referenced in subpart E of this part for the substance.
    (k) Use other than allowed by the section 5(e) consent order 
referenced in subpart E of this part for the substance.
    (l) Non-industrial use.
    (m) Commercial use.
    (n) Non-commercial use.
    (o) Use in a consumer product.
    (p) Aggregate manufacture and importation volume for any use greater 
than that specified in subpart E of this part for the substance.
    (q) Aggregate manufacture and importation volume for any use greater 
than that allowed by the section 5(e) consent order referenced in 
subpart E of this part for the substance.
    (r) Aggregate manufacture and importation volume for any use greater 
than that specified in subpart E of this part for the substance unless 
the manufacturer or importer has submitted the results of the health or 
environmental effects studies identified in subpart E of this part for 
the substance and those studies comply with the procedures and criteria 
for developing and evaluating data identified in subpart E of this part 
for the substance.
    (s) Annual manufacture and importation volume for any use greater 
than that specified in subpart E of this part for the substance.
    (t) Annual manufacture and importation volume for any use greater 
than that allowed by the section 5(e) consent order referenced in 
subpart E of this part for the substance.
    (u) Annual manufacture and importation volume for any use greater 
than that specified in subpart E of this part for the substance unless 
the manufacturer or importer has submitted the results of the health or 
environmental effects studies identified in subpart E of this part for 
the substance and those studies comply with the procedures and criteria 
for developing and evaluating data identified in subpart E of this part 
for the substance.
    (v) Use in the form of:
    (1) A powder.
    (2) A solid.
    (3) A liquid.
    (4) A gas.
    (w) Any manner or method of manufacture of the substance in the 
following form associated with any use:
    (1) A powder.
    (2) A solid.
    (3) A liquid.
    (4) A gas.
    (x) Any manner or method of processing of the substance in the 
following form associated with any use:
    (1) A powder.
    (2) A solid.
    (3) A liquid.
    (4) A gas.
    (y) Use involving an application method that generates:
    (1) A vapor, mist, or aerosol.
    (2) A dust.


<R05>
Sec. 721.85  Disposal.

    Whenever a substance is identified in subpart E of this part as 
being subject to this section, a significant new use of the substance is 
any method of:
    (a) Disposal of the process stream associated with any use of the 
substance or with any manner or method of manufacturing associated with 
any use of the substance other than by the following. This provision 
does not supercede any applicable Federal, State, or local laws and 
regulations.
    (1) Incineration.
    (2) Landfill.
    (3) Deep well injection.
    (b) Disposal of the process stream associated with any use or with 
any manner or method of processing associated with any use other than by 
the following. This provision does not supercede any applicable Federal, 
State, or local laws and regulations.
    (1) Incineration.
    (2) Landfill.
    (3) Deep well injection.
    (c) Disposal of the use stream associated with any use, other than 
by the following. This provision does not supercede any applicable 
Federal, State, or local laws and regulations.
    (1) Incineration.

[[Page 199]]

    (2) Landfill.
    (3) Deep well injection.
    (d) Disposal of the substance associated with any use of the 
substance, or with any manner or method of manufacture or processing in 
association with any use. This provision does not supercede any 
applicable Federal, State, or local laws and regulations.


<R05>
Sec. 721.90  Release to water.

    Whenever a substance is identified in subpart E of this part as 
being subject to this section, a significant new use of the substance 
is:
    (a) Any predictable or purposeful release of a manufacturing stream 
associated with any use of the substance, from any site:
    (1) Into the waters of the United States.
    (2) Into the waters of the United States without application of one 
or more of the following treatment technologies as specified in subpart 
E of this part either by the discharger or, in the case of a release 
through publicly-owned treatment works, by a combination of treatment by 
the discharger and the publicly-owned treatment works:
    (i) Chemical precipitation and settling.
    (ii) Biological treatment (activated sludge or equivalent) plus 
clarification.
    (iii) Steam stripping.
    (iv) Resin or activated carbon adsorption.
    (v) Chemical destruction or conversion.
    (vi) Primary wastewater treatment.
    (3) Into the waters of the United States without primary wastewater 
treatment, and secondary wastewater treatment as defined in 40 CFR part 
133.
    (4) Into the waters of the United States if the quotient from the 
following formula:
[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TR25SE06.006


exceeds the level specified in subpart E of this part when calculated 
using the methods described in Sec. 721.91. In lieu of calculating the 
above quotient, monitoring or alternative calculations may be used to 
predict the surface water concentration which will result from the 
intended release of the substance, if the monitoring procedures or 
calculations have been approved for such purpose by EPA. EPA will review 
and act on written requests to approve monitoring procedures or 
alternative calculations within 90 days after such requests are 
received. EPA will inform submitters of the disposition of such requests 
in writing, and will explain the reasons therefor when they are denied.
    (b) Any predictable or purposeful release of a process stream 
containing the substance associated with any use of the substance from 
any site:
    (1) Into the waters of the United States.
    (2) Into the waters of the United States without application of one 
or more of the following treatment technologies as specified in subpart 
E of this part either by the discharger or, in the case of a release 
through publicly-owned treatment works, by a combination of treatment by 
the discharger and the publicly-owned treatment works:
    (i) Chemical precipitation and settling.
    (ii) Biological treatment (activated sludge or equivalent) plus 
clarification.
    (iii) Steam stripping.
    (iv) Resin or activated carbon adsorption.
    (v) Chemical destruction or conversion.
    (vi) Primary wastewater treatment.
    (3) Into the waters of the United States without primary wastewater 
treatment, and secondary wastewater treatment as defined in 40 CFR part 
133.
    (4) Into the waters of the United States if the quotient from the 
following formula:

[[Page 200]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TR25SE06.006


exceeds the level specified in subpart E of this part when calculated 
using the methods described in Sec. 721.91. In lieu of calculating the 
above quotient, monitoring or alternative calculations may be used to 
predict the surface water concentration which will result from the 
intended release of the substance, if the monitoring procedures or 
calculations have been approved for such purpose by EPA. EPA will review 
and act on written requests to approve monitoring procedures or 
alternative calculations within 90 days after such requests are 
received. EPA will inform submitters of the disposition of such requests 
in writing, and will explain the reasons therefor when they are denied.
    (c) Any predictable or purposeful release of a use stream containing 
the substance associated with any use of the substance from any site:
    (1) Into the waters of the United States.
    (2) Into the waters of the United States without application of one 
or more of the following treatment technologies as specified in subpart 
E of this part either by the discharger or, in the case of a release 
through publicly-owned treatment works, by a combination of treatment by 
the discharger and the publicly-owned treatment works:
    (i) Chemical precipitation and settling.
    (ii) Biological treatment (activated sludge or equivalent) plus 
clarification.
    (iii) Steam stripping.
    (iv) Resin or activated carbon adsorption.
    (v) Chemical destruction or conversion.
    (vi) Primary wastewater treatment.
    (3) Into the waters of the United States without primary wastewater 
treatment, and secondary wastewater treatment as defined in 40 CFR part 
133.
    (4) Into the waters of the United States if the quotient from:
    [GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TR25SE06.006
    

exceeds the level specified in subpart E of this part, when calculated 
using the methods described in Sec. 721.91. In lieu of calculating the 
above quotient, however, monitoring or alternative calculations may be 
used to predict the surface water concentration expected to result from 
intended release of the substance, if the monitoring procedures or 
calculations have been approved for such purpose by EPA. EPA will review 
and act on written requests to approve monitoring procedures or 
alternative calculations within 90 days after such requests are 
received. EPA will inform submitters of the disposition of such requests 
in writing, and will explain the reasons therefor when they are denied.


<R05>
Sec. 721.91  Computation of estimated surface water concentrations:
Instructions.

    These instructions describe the use of the equation specified in 
Sec. 721.90(a)(4) and (b)(4) to compute estimated surface water 
concentrations which will result from release of a substance identified 
in subpart E of this part. The equation shall be computed for each site 
using the stream flow rate appropriate for the site according to 
paragraph (b) of this section, and the highest number of kilograms 
calculated to be released for that site on a given day according to 
paragraph (a) of this section. Two variables shall be considered in 
computing the equation, the number of kilograms released, and receiving 
stream flow.

[[Page 201]]

    (a) Number of kilograms released. (1) To calculate the number of 
kilograms of substance to be released from manufacturing, processing, or 
use operations, as specified in the numerator of the equation, develop a 
process description diagram which describes each manufacturing, 
processing, or use operation involving the substance. The process 
description must include the major unit operation steps and chemical 
conversions. A unit operation is a functional step in a manufacturing, 
processing, or use operation where substances undergo chemical changes 
and/or changes in location, temperature, pressure, physical state, or 
similar characteristics. Include steps in which the substance is 
formulated into mixtures, suspensions, solutions, etc.
    (2) Indicate on each diagram the entry point of all feedstocks 
(e.g., reactants, solvents, and catalysts) used in the operation. 
Identify each feedstock and specify its approximate weight regardless of 
whether the process is continuous or batch.
    (3) Identify all release points from which the substance or wastes 
containing the substance will be released into air, land, or water. 
Indicate these release points on the diagram. Do not include accidental 
releases or fugitive emissions.
    (4) For releases identified in the diagram that are destined for 
water, estimate the amount of substance that will be released before the 
substance enters control technology. The kilograms of substance released 
may be estimated based on:
    (i) The mass balance of the operation, i.e., totaling inputs and 
outputs, including wastes for each part of the process such that outputs 
equal inputs. The amount released to water may be the difference between 
the amount of the substance in the starting material (or formed in a 
reaction) minus the amount of waste material removed from each part of 
the process and not released to water and the amount of the substance in 
the final product.
    (ii) Physical properties such as water solubility where a known 
volume of water being discharged is assumed to contain the substance at 
concentrations equal to its solubility in water. This approach is 
particularly useful where the waste stream results from separation of 
organic/water phases or filtration of the substance from an aqueous 
stream to be discharged.
    (iii) Measurements of flow rates of the process/use stream and known 
concentrations of the substance in the stream.
    (5) After releases of a substance to water are estimated for each 
operation on a site, total the releases of the substance to water from 
all operations at that site. The value (number of kilograms) specified 
in the numerator of the equation should reflect total kilograms of 
substance released to water per day from all operations at a single 
site.
    (6) Use the highest expected daily release of the substance for each 
site.
    (b) Receiving stream flow. (1) The receiving stream flow shall be 
expressed in million liters per day (MLD). The flow rate data to be used 
must be for the point of release on the water body that first receives 
release of the substance whether by direct discharge from a site, or by 
indirect discharge through a Publicly-Owned Treatment Works (POTW) for 
each site. The flow rate reported shall be the lowest 7-day average 
stream flow with a recurrence interval of 10 years (7-Q-10). If the 7-Q-
10 flow rate is not available for the actual point of release, the 
stream flow rate should be used from the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) 
gauging station that is nearest the point of release that is expected to 
have a flow rate less than or equal to the receiving stream flow at the 
point of release.
    (2) Receiving stream flow data may be available from the National 
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit for the site or 
the POTW releasing the substance to surface water, from the NPDES 
permit-writing authority for the site or the POTW, or from USGS 
publications, such as the water-data report series.
    (3) If receiving stream flow data are not available for a stream, 
either the value of 10 MLD or the daily flow of wastewater from the site 
or the POTW releasing the substance must be used as an assumed minimum 
stream flow. Similarly, if stream flow data are not available because 
the location of the

[[Page 202]]

point of release of the substance to surface water is a lake, estuary, 
bay, or ocean, then the flow rate to be used must be the daily flow of 
wastewater from the site or the POTW releasing the substance to surface 
water. Wastewater flow data may be available from the NPDES permit or 
NPDES authority for the site or the POTW releasing the substance to 
water.


<R04>
                  Subpart C_Recordkeeping Requirements


<R05>
Sec. 721.100  Applicability.

    This subpart C identifies certain additional recordkeeping 
requirements applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of 
substances identified in subpart E of this part for each specific 
substance. The provisions of this subpart C apply only when referenced 
in subpart E of this part for a substance and significant new use 
identified in that subpart E. If the provisions in this subpart C 
conflict with general provisions of subpart A of this part, the 
provisions of this subpart C shall apply.

[54 FR 31313, July 27, 1989]


<R05>
Sec. 721.125  Recordkeeping requirements.

    At the time EPA adds a substance to subpart E of this part, EPA will 
specify appropriate recordkeeping requirements which correspond to the 
significant new use designations for the substance selected from subpart 
B of this part. Each manufacturer, importer, and processor of the 
substance shall maintain the records for 5 years from the date of their 
creation. In addition to the records specified in Sec. 721.40, the 
records whose maintenance this section requires may include the 
following:
    (a) Records documenting the manufacture and importation volume of 
the substance and the corresponding dates of manufacture and import.
    (b) Records documenting volumes of the substance purchased in the 
United States by processors of the substance, names and addresses of 
suppliers, and corresponding dates of purchase.
    (c) Records documenting the names and addresses (including shipment 
destination address, if different) of all persons outside the site of 
manufacture, importation, or processing to whom the manufacturer, 
importer, or processor directly sells or transfers the substance, the 
date of each sale or transfer, and the quantity of the substance sold or 
transferred on such date.
    (d) Records documenting establishment and implementation of a 
program for the use of any applicable personal protective equipment 
required under Sec. 721.63.
    (e) Records documenting the determinations required by Sec. 
721.63(a)(3) that chemical protective clothing is impervious to the 
substance.
    (f) Records documenting establishment and implementation of the 
hazard communication program required under Sec. 721.72.
    (g) Copies of labels required under Sec. 721.72(b).
    (h) Copies of material safety data sheets required under Sec. 
721.72(c).
    (i) Records documenting compliance with any applicable industrial, 
commercial, and consumer use limitations under Sec. 721.80.
    (j) Records documenting compliance with any applicable disposal 
requirements under Sec. 721.85, including the method of disposal, 
location of disposal sites, dates of disposal, and volume of the 
substance disposed. Where the estimated disposal volume is not known to 
or reasonably ascertainable by the manufacturer, importer, or processor, 
that person must maintain other records which demonstrate establishment 
and implementation of a program that ensures compliance with any 
applicable disposal requirements.
    (k) Records documenting establishment and implementation of 
procedures that ensure compliance with any applicable water discharge 
limitations under Sec. 721.90.

[54 FR 31313, July 27, 1989]


<R04>
 Subpart D_Expedited Process for Issuing Significant New Use Rules for 
 Selected Chemical Substances and Limitation or Revocation of Selected 
                        Significant New Use Rules

    Source: 54 FR 31314, July 27, 1989, unless otherwise noted.

[[Page 203]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.160  Notification requirements for new chemical substances
subject to section 5(e) orders.

    (a) Selection of substances. (1) In accordance with the expedited 
process specified in this section, EPA will issue significant new use 
notification requirements and other specific requirements for each new 
chemical substance that is the subject of a final order issued under 
section 5(e) of the Act, except for an order that prohibits manufacture 
and import of the substance, unless EPA determines that significant new 
use notification requirements are not needed for the substance.
    (2) If EPA determines that significant new use notification 
requirements are not needed for a substance that is subject to a final 
order issued under section 5(e) of the Act, except for an order that 
prohibits manufacture or import of the substance, EPA will issue a 
notice in the Federal Register explaining why the significant new use 
requirements are not needed.
    (b) Designation of requirements. (1) The significant new use 
notification and other specific requirements will be based on and be 
consistent with the provisions included in the final order issued for 
the substance under section 5(e) of the Act. EPA may also designate 
additional activities as significant new uses which will be subject to 
notification. Designation of additional activities as significant new 
uses will be done in accordance with the criteria and procedures under 
Sec. 721.170, or through a separate rulemaking proceeding.
    (2) Significant new use requirements and other specific requirements 
designated under this section will be listed in subpart E of this part. 
For each substance, subpart E will identify:
    (i) The chemical name.
    (ii) The activities designated as significant new uses.
    (iii) Other specific requirements applicable to the substance, 
including recordkeeping requirements or any other requirements included 
in the final section 5(e) order.
    (c) Procedures for issuing significant new use rules. (1) EPA will 
issue significant new use rules under this section by one of the 
following three processes: direct final rulemaking, interim final 
rulemaking, or notice and comment rulemaking. EPA will use the direct 
final rulemaking process to issue significant new use rules unless it 
determines that, in a particular case, one of the other processes is 
more appropriate.
    (2) Federal Register documents issued to propose or establish 
significant new uses under this section will contain the following:
    (i) The chemical identity of the substance or, if its specific 
identity is claimed confidential, an appropriate generic chemical name 
and an accession number assigned by EPA.
    (ii) The premanufacture notice number.
    (iii) The CAS number, where available and not claimed confidential.
    (iv) A summary of EPA's findings under section 5(e)(1)(A) of the Act 
for the final order issued under section 5(e).
    (v) Designation of the significant new uses subject to, or proposed 
to be subject to, notification and any other applicable requirements.
    (vi) Any modifications of subpart A of this part applicable to the 
specific substance and significant new uses.
    (vii) If the Federal Register document establishes a final rule, or 
notifies the public that a final rule will not be issued after public 
comment has been received, the document will describe comments received 
and EPA's response.
    (3) Direct final rulemaking. (i) When EPA uses the direct final 
rulemaking procedure to issue a significant new use rule, it will issue 
a final rule in the Federal Register following its decision to develop a 
significant new use rule under this section for a specific new chemical 
substance.
    (ii) The Federal Register document will state that, unless written 
notice is received by EPA within 30 days of publication that someone 
wishes to submit adverse or critical comments, the rule will be 
effective 60 days from the date of publication. The written notice of 
intent to submit adverse or critical comments should state which SNUR(s) 
will be the subject of the adverse or critical comments, if several 
SNURs are established through the direct final rule. If notice is 
received within 30

[[Page 204]]

days that someone wishes to submit adverse or critical comments, the 
section(s) of the direct final rule containing the SNUR(s) for which a 
notice of intent to comment was received will be withdrawn by EPA 
issuing a document in the final rule section of the Federal Register, 
and a proposal will be published in the proposed rule section of the 
Federal Register. The proposal will establish a 30-day comment period.
    (iii) If EPA, having considered any timely comments submitted in 
response to the proposal, decides to establish notification requirements 
under this section, EPA will issue a final rule adding the substance to 
subpart E of this part and designating the significant new uses subject 
to notification.
    (4) Notice and comment rulemaking. (i) When EPA uses a notice and 
comment procedure to issue a significant new use rule, EPA will issue a 
proposal in the Federal Register following its decision to develop a 
significant new use rule under this section for a specific new chemical 
substance. Persons will be given 30 days to comment on whether EPA 
should establish notification requirements for the substance under this 
part.
    (ii) If EPA, having considered any timely comments, decides to 
establish notification requirements under this section, EPA will issue a 
final rule adding the substance to subpart E of this part and 
designating the significant new uses subject to notification.
    (5) Interim final rulemaking. (i) When EPA uses the interim final 
rulemaking procedure to issue a significant new use rule, EPA will issue 
an interim final rule in the final rule section of the Federal Register 
following its decision to develop a significant new use rule for a 
specific new chemical substance. The document will state EPA's reasons 
for using the interim final rulemaking procedure.
    (A) The significant new use rule will take effect on the date of 
publication.
    (B) Persons will be given 30 days from the date of publication to 
submit comments.
    (ii) Interim final rules issued under this section shall cease to be 
in effect 180 days after publication unless, within the 180-day period, 
EPA issues a final rule in the Federal Register responding to any 
written comments received during the 30-day comment period specified in 
paragraph (c)(5)(i)(B) of this section and promulgating final 
significant new use notification requirements and other requirements for 
the substance.
    (d) Schedule for issuing significant new use rules. (1) Unless EPA 
determines that a significant new use rule should not be issued under 
this section, EPA will issue a proposed rule, a direct final rule, or an 
interim final rule within 180 days of receipt of a valid notice of 
commencement under Sec. 720.102 of this chapter for any substance for 
which the notice of commencement was received on or after October 10, 
1989.
    (2) Unless EPA determines that a significant new use rule should not 
be issued under this section, EPA will issue a proposed rule, a direct 
final rule, or an interim final rule within 1 year of October 10, 1989, 
for any substance for which the valid notice of commencement under Sec. 
720.102 of this chapter was received before October 10, 1989.
    (3) If EPA receives adverse or critical significant comments 
following publication of a proposed or interim final rule, EPA will 
either withdraw the rule or issue a final rule addressing the comments 
received.


<R05>
Sec. 721.170  Notification requirements for selected new chemical 
substances that have completed pre manu facture review.

    (a) Selection of substances. In accordance with the expedited 
process specified in this section, EPA may issue significant new use 
notification and recordkeeping requirements for any new chemical 
substance for which a premanufacture notice has been submitted under 
part 720 of this chapter if EPA determines that activities other than 
those described in the premanufacture notice may result in significant 
changes in human exposure or environmental release levels and/or that 
concern exists about the substance's health or environmental effects.

[[Page 205]]

    (b) Concern criteria. EPA may determine that concern exists about a 
substance's health or environmental effects if EPA makes any one of the 
following findings:
    (1)(i) The substance may cause carcinogenic effects because the 
substance:
    (A) Has been shown by valid test data to cause carcinogenic effects 
in humans or in at least one species of laboratory animal.
    (B) Has been shown to be a possible carcinogen based on the weight 
of the evidence in short-term tests indicative of the potential to cause 
carcinogenic effects.
    (C) Is closely analogous, based on toxicologically relevant 
similarities in molecular structure and physical properties, to another 
substance that has been shown by test data to cause carcinogenic effects 
in humans or in at least one species of laboratory animal, provided that 
if there is more than one such analogue, the greatest weight will be 
given to the relevant data for the most appropriate analogues.
    (D) Is known or can reasonably be anticipated, based on valid 
scientific data or established scientific principles, to be metabolized 
in humans or transformed in the environment to a substance which may 
have the potential to cause carcinogenic effects under the criteria in 
paragraphs (b)(1)(i) (A), (B), or (C) of this section.
    (ii) No substance may be regulated based on a finding under 
paragraph (b)(1) of this section unless EPA has also made the finding 
under Sec. 721.170(c)(2)(ii).
    (2) The substance has been shown by valid test data to cause acutely 
toxic effects in at least one species of laboratory animal or is closely 
analogous, based on toxicologically relevant similarities in molecular 
structure and physical properties, to another substance that has been 
shown by valid test data to cause acutely toxic effects in at least one 
species of laboratory animal, provided that if there is more than one 
such analogue, the greatest weight will be given to the relevant data 
for the most appropriate analogues.
    (3) The substance may cause serious chronic effects, serious acute 
effects, or developmentally toxic effects under reasonably anticipated 
conditions of exposure because the substance:
    (i) Has been shown by valid test data to cause serious chronic 
effects, serious acute effects, or developmentally toxic effects in 
humans or in at least one species of laboratory animal at dose levels 
that could be of concern under reasonably anticipated conditions of 
exposure.
    (ii) Is closely analogous, based on toxicologically relevant 
similarities in molecular structure and physical properties, to another 
chemical substance that has been shown by valid test data to cause 
serious chronic effects, serious acute effects, or developmentally toxic 
effects in humans or in at least one species of laboratory animal at 
dose levels that could be of concern under reasonably anticipated 
conditions of exposure, provided that if there is more than one such 
analogue, the greatest weight will be given to the relevant data for the 
most appropriate analogues.
    (iii) Is known or can reasonably be anticipated, based on valid 
scientific data or established scientific principles, to be metabolized 
in humans or transformed in the environment to a substance which may 
have the potential to cause serious chronic effects, serious acute 
effects, or developmentally toxic effects under the criteria in 
paragraph (b)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section.
    (iv) Has been shown to potentially cause developmentally toxic 
effects based on the weight of the evidence in short-term tests 
indicative of the potential to cause developmentally toxic effects.
    (4) The substance may cause significant adverse environmental 
effects under reasonably anticipated conditions of release because the 
substance:
    (i) Has been shown by valid test data to cause significant adverse 
environmental effects at dose levels that could be of concern under 
reasonably anticipated conditions of release.
    (ii) Is closely analogous, based on toxicologically relevant 
similarities in molecular structure and physical properties, to another 
substance that has been shown by valid test data to cause significant 
adverse environmental effects at dose levels that could be of

[[Page 206]]

concern under reasonably anticipated conditions of release, provided 
that if there is more than one such analogue, the greatest weight will 
be given to the relevant data for the most appropriate analogues.
    (iii) Has been determined, based on calculations using the 
substance's physical and chemical properties, to be potentially able to 
cause significant adverse environmental effects at dose levels that 
could be of concern under reasonably anticipated conditions of release.
    (iv) Is known or can reasonably be anticipated, based on valid 
scientific data or established scientific principles, to be 
environmentally transformed to a substance which may have the potential 
to cause significant adverse environmental effects under the criteria in 
paragraph (b)(4) (i), (ii), and (iii) of this section.
    (5) Concern exists about the health or environmental effects of one 
or more impurities or byproducts of the substance because the impurity 
or byproduct meets one or more of the criteria in paragraph (b) (1) 
through (4) of this section and either:
    (i) The impurity or byproduct is a new chemical substance and may be 
present in concentrations that could cause adverse health or 
environmental effects under reasonably anticipated conditions of 
exposure or release.
    (ii) Reasonably anticipated manufacture, processing, or use 
activities involving the substance for which a premanufacture notice has 
been submitted may result in significantly increased human exposure to 
or environmental release of the impurity or byproduct compared to 
exposure or release levels resulting from existing activities involving 
the impurity or byproduct.
    (c) Designation of requirements. (1) When EPA decides to establish 
significant new use reporting requirements under this section, EPA may 
designate as a significant new use any one or more of the activities set 
forth in subpart B of this part. In addition, EPA may designate specific 
recordkeeping requirements described under subpart C of this part that 
are applicable to the substance.
    (2) EPA may designate as a significant new use only those activities 
that (i) are different from those described in the premanufacture notice 
for the substance, including any amendments, deletions, and additions of 
activities to the premanufacture notice, and (ii) may be accompanied by 
changes in exposure or release levels that are significant in relation 
to the health or environmental concerns identified under paragraph (b) 
of this section.
    (d) Procedures for issuing significant new use rules. (1) 
Significant new use requirements designated under this section will be 
listed in subpart E of this part. For each substance, subpart E of this 
part will identify:
    (i) The chemical name.
    (ii) The activities designated as significant new uses, which may 
include one or more of the activities described in paragraph (c) of this 
section.
    (iii) Other specific requirements applicable to the substance.
    (2) When EPA determines that a substance is a candidate for a 
significant new use rule under this section, it will notify the person 
that submitted the premanufacture notice for the substance no later than 
7 calendar days before the expiration of the notice review period under 
Sec. 720.75 of this chapter. In providing this notice, EPA will 
describe the health or environmental concerns identified under paragraph 
(b) of this section and the activities under consideration for 
designation as significant new uses. Such notice may be by telephone, 
but in this event will be confirmed in writing no later than 30 days 
after completion of the notice review period.
    (3) Federal Register documents issued to propose or establish 
significant new uses under this section will contain the following:
    (i) The chemical identity of the substance or, if its specific 
identity is claimed confidential, an appropriate generic chemical name 
and an accession number assigned by EPA.
    (ii) The premanufacture notice number.
    (iii) The CAS number, where available and not claimed confidential.
    (iv) A summary of the basis for action under this section.

[[Page 207]]

    (v) Designation of the significant new uses subject to, or proposed 
to be subject to, notification and any other applicable requirements.
    (vi) Any modifications of subpart A of this part applicable to the 
specific substance and significant new uses.
    (vii) If the Federal Register document establishes a final rule, or 
notifies the public that a final rule will not be issued after public 
comment has been received, the document will describe comments received 
and EPA's response.
    (4) EPA will issue significant new use rules under this section by 
one of the following three processes: direct final rulemaking, interim 
final rulemaking, or notice and comment rulemaking. EPA will use the 
direct final rulemaking process to issue significant new use rules 
unless it determines that, in a particular case, one of the other 
processes is more appropriate.
    (i)(A) When EPA uses the direct final rulemaking procedure to issue 
a significant new use rule it will issue a direct final rule in the 
final rule section of the Federal Register following its decision to 
develop a significant new use rule under this section for a specific new 
chemical substance.
    (B) The Federal Register document will state that, unless written 
notice is received by EPA within 30 days after the date of publication 
that someone wishes to submit adverse or critical comments, the SNUR 
will be effective 60 days from date of publication. The written notice 
of intent to submit adverse or critical comments should state which 
SNUR(s) will be the subject of the adverse or critical comments, if 
several SNURs are established through the direct final rule. If notice 
is received within 30 days after the date of publication that someone 
wishes to submit adverse or critical comments, the section(s) of the 
direct final rule containing the SNUR(s) for which a notice of intent to 
comment was received will be withdrawn by EPA issuing a document in the 
final rule section of the Federal Register, and EPA will issue a 
proposed rule in the proposed rule section of the Federal Register. The 
proposed rule will establish a 30-day comment period.
    (C) If EPA, having considered any timely comments submitted in 
response to the proposal, decides to establish notification requirements 
under this section, EPA will issue a final rule adding the substance to 
subpart E of this part and designating the significant new uses subject 
to notification.
    (ii)(A) When EPA uses a notice and comment procedure to issue a 
significant new use rule, EPA will issue a proposed rule in the Federal 
Register following its decision to develop a significant new use rule 
under this section for a specific new chemical substance. Persons will 
be given 30 days to comment on whether EPA should establish notification 
requirements for the substance under this part.
    (B) If EPA, having considered any timely comments, decides to 
establish notification requirements under this section, EPA will issue a 
final rule adding the substance to subpart E of this part and 
designating the significant new uses subject to notification.
    (iii)(A) When EPA uses the interim final rulemaking procedure to 
issue a significant new use rule, EPA will issue an interim final rule 
in the final rule section of the Federal Register following its decision 
to develop a significant new use rule for a specific new chemical 
substance. The document will state EPA's reasons for using the interim 
final rulemaking procedure.
    (1) The significant new use rule will take effect on the date of 
publication.
    (2) Persons will be given 30 days from the date of publication to 
submit comments.
    (B) An interim final rule issued under this section shall cease to 
be in effect 180 days after publication unless, within the 180-day 
period, EPA issues a final rule in the Federal Register responding to 
any written comments received during the 30-day comment period specified 
in paragraph (d)(4)(iii)(A)(2) of this section and promulgating final 
significant new use notification requirements and other requirements for 
the substance.
    (e) Schedule for issuing significant new use rules. (1) EPA will 
issue a proposed rule, an interim final rule, or a direct final rule 
within 270 days of receipt of the notice of commencement under

[[Page 208]]

Sec. 720.102 of this chapter for any substance for which the notice of 
commencement was received on or after October 10, 1989.
    (2) If EPA receives adverse or critical comments within the 
designated comment period following publication of a proposed rule or an 
interim final rule, EPA will either withdraw the rule or issue a final 
rule addressing the comments received.

[54 FR 31314, July 27, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 16316, Mar. 29, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.185  Limitation or revocation of certain notification 
requirements.

    (a) Criteria for modification or revocation. EPA may at any time 
modify or revoke significant new use notification requirements for a 
chemical substance which has been added to subpart E of this part using 
the procedures under Sec. 721.160 or Sec. 721.170. Such action may be 
taken under this section if EPA makes one of the following 
determinations, unless other information shows that the requirements 
should be retained:
    (1) Test data or other information obtained by EPA provide a 
reasonable basis for concluding that activities designated as 
significant new uses of the substance will not present an unreasonable 
risk of injury to human health or the environment.
    (2) EPA has promulgated a rule under section 4 or 6 of the Act, or 
EPA or another agency has taken action under another law for the 
substance that eliminates the need for significant new use notification 
under section 5(a)(2) of the Act.
    (3) EPA has received significant new use notices for some or all of 
the activities designated as significant new uses of the substance and, 
after reviewing such notices, concluded that there is no need to require 
additional notice from persons who propose to engage in identical or 
similar activities.
    (4) EPA has examined new information, or has reexamined the test 
data or other information or analysis supporting its decision to add the 
substance to subpart E of this part under Sec. 721.170 and has 
concluded that the substance does not meet the criteria under Sec. 
721.170(b).
    (5) For a substance added to subpart E of this part under Sec. 
721.160, EPA has examined new information, or has reexamined the test 
data or other in for ma tion or analysis supporting its finding under 
section 5(e)(1)(A)(ii)(I) of the Act, and has concluded that a rational 
basis no longer exists for the findings that activities involving the 
substance may present an unreasonable risk of injury to human health or 
the environment required under section 5(e)(1)(A) of the Act.
    (6) For a substance added to subpart E of this part under Sec. 
721.160, certain activities involving the substance have been designated 
as significant new uses pending the completion of testing, and adequate 
test data developed in accordance with applicable procedures and 
criteria have been submitted to EPA.
    (b) Procedures for limitation or revocation. Modification or 
revocation of significant new use notification requirements for a 
substance that has been added to subpart E of this part using the 
procedures described under Sec. 721.160 or Sec. 721.170 may occur 
either at EPA's initiative or in response to a written request.
    (1) Any affected person may request modification or revocation of 
significant new use notification requirements for a chemical substance 
that has been added to subpart E of this part using the procedures 
described in Sec. 721.160 or Sec. 721.170 by submitting a request that 
is accompanied by information sufficient to support the request. Persons 
submitting a request to EPA under this part must submit the request to 
EPA using e-PMN software in the manner set forth in 40 CFR 
720.40(a)(2)(i). See 40 CFR 720.40(a)(2)(ii) for information on how to 
obtain the e-PMN software. Support documents related to these requests 
must also be submitted to EPA in the manner set forth in 40 CFR 
720.40(c).
    (2) The Director of the Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics 
will consider the request, make a determination whether to initiate 
rulemaking to modify the requirements, and notify the requester of that 
determination by certified letter. If the request is denied, the letter 
will explain why EPA has concluded that the significant new use 
notification requirements for that substance should remain in effect.

[[Page 209]]

    (3) If EPA concludes that significant new use notification 
requirements for a substance should be limited or revoked, EPA will 
propose the changes in the Federal Register, briefly describe the 
grounds for the action, and provide interested parties an opportunity to 
comment.

[54 FR 31314, July 27, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 
60 FR 34464, July 3, 1995; 71 FR 33641, June 12, 2006; 76 FR 30836, May 
27, 2011; 78 FR 72827, Dec. 4, 2013]


<R04>
     Subpart E_Significant New Uses for Specific Chemical Substances


<R05>
Sec. 721.225  2-Chloro-N-methyl-N-substituted acetamide (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance 2-chloro-N-methyl-N-substituted 
acetamide (PMN P-84-393) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b)(2), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), and (g)(2)(v). The provisions of Sec. 721.72(d) 
requiring employees to be provided with information on the location and 
availability of a written hazard communication program and MSDSs do not 
apply when the written program and MSDSs are not required under Sec. 
721.72 (a) and (c), respectively. The provision of Sec. 721.72(g) 
requiring placement of specific information on an MSDS does not apply 
when an MSDS is not required under Sec. 721.72(c).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and con sumer activities. Requirements 
as specified Sec. 721.80(g).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The recordkeeping requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.125 (a) through (g) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 32412, Aug. 9, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 20424, May 13, 1992. 
Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.267  N-[2-[(substituted dinitrophenyl)azo]diallylamino-4- 
substituted phenyl] acetamide (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as N-[2-
[(substituted dinitrophenyl)azo]diallylamino-4-substituted phenyl] 
acetamide (PMN P-95-513) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[61 FR 63734, Dec. 2, 1996]


<R05>
Sec. 721.275  Halogenated-N-(2-propenyl)-N-(substituted phenyl)
acetamide.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
halogenated-N-(2-propenyl)-N-(substituted phenyl) acetamide (P-83-1085) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1) and (a)(3).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and con sumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g).

[[Page 210]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a) through (e), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[56 FR 25988, June 5, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.285  Acetamide, N-[4-(pentyloxy)phenyl]-, acetamide,
N-[2-nitro-4-(pentyloxy)phenyl]-, and acetamide, N-[2-amino-4-
(pentyloxy)phenyl]-.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as acetamide, N-[4-
(pentyloxy)phenyl]- (PMN P-92-31), acetamide, N-[2-nitro-4-
(pentyloxy)phenyl]- (PMN P-92-32), and acetamide, N-[2-amino-4-
(pentyloxy)phenyl]- (PMN P-92-33) are subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Industrial, commercial, and 
consumer activities. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.80(h).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 90 ppb for PMNs P-92-31 and P-92-
32, and N = 30 ppb for P-92-33). When calculating the surface water 
concentrations according to the instructions in Sec. 721.90(a)(4), the 
statement that the amount of the substance that will be released will be 
calculated before the substance enters control technology does not 
apply. Instead, if the waste stream containing the substance will be 
treated before release, then the amount of the substance reasonably 
likely to be removed from the waste stream by such treatment may be 
subtracted in calculating the number of kilograms released. No more than 
25 percent removal efficiency may be attributed to such treatment.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51702, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.303  Acetic acid, 2-methoxy-, methyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as acetic acid, 2-
methoxy-, methyl ester (PMN P-99-0365, CAS No. 6290-49-9) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[65 FR 81398, Dec. 26, 2000, as amended at 79 FR 34636, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.304  Acetic acid, [(5-chloro-8-quinolinyl)oxy-],
1-methyl hexyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as acetic acid, [(5-
chloro-8-quinolinyl)oxy-]-, 1-methylhexyl ester (PMN P-01-170; CAS No. 
99607-70-2) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 211]]

    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), and (a)(5)(iv).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and, (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70173, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.305  Di-substituted acetophenone (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as di-
substituted acetophenone (PMN P-97-93) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (b) 
(concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v). The following statement shall appear on each 
label as specified in Sec. 721.72(b) and the MSDS as specified in Sec. 
721.72(c): This substance is expected to be dermally absorbed and may 
cause effects to the liver, kidney, adrenal glands, and the heart.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[63 FR 44574, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.320  Acrylamide-substituted epoxy.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
acrylamide-substituted epoxy (PMN P-92-660) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3), 
(a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), 
(g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), 
(g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 51681, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.321  Substituted acrylamides and acrylic acid copolymer 
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 212]]

chemical substance identified generically as substituted acrylamides and 
acrylic acid copolymer (PMN P-00-0490) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (v)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15079, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.323  Substituted acrylamide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance generically identified as 
substituted acrylamide (PMN P-90-1687) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Protection in the workplace. 
Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), 
(a)(4), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
and (c). Section 721.63 (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), and (a)(5)(iii) apply to 
manufacturing operations only; Sec. 721.63(a)(5)(ix), (a)(5)(x), and 
(a)(5)(xi) apply to processing and use operations only.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(ii) (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), 
(g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). The following additional statement shall appear 
on each label and MSDS as required by this paragraph: This substance may 
cause nervous system effects.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 51702, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.324  Alkoxylated acrylate polymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkoxylated acrylate polymer (PMN P-98-807) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 366, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.329  Halogenated benzyl ester acrylate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
halogenated benzyl ester acrylate (PMN P-90-1527) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4),

[[Page 213]]

(a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(6)(i), (b), and (c) 
(concentration set at 1.0 percent). The reporting requirement for Sec. 
721.63(a)(5)(i) applies only during manufacture. The reporting 
requirement for Sec. 721.63 (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iv), and (a)(5)(v) 
applies only during processing.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5). The following 
statement shall appear on each label as specified in Sec. 721.72(b) and 
the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) as specified in Sec. 721.72 (c): 
The substance may cause internal organ effects (kidney and blood). The 
requirements of this section do not apply when the PMN substance is 
bound or embedded into a plastic, resin matrix, or pellet.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance 
as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and 
(i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[65 FR 366, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.330  Aromatic acrylate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an 
aromatic acrylate (PMN P-01-420) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90(a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70174, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.333  Dimethyl alkylamine salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as a 
Dimethyl alkylamine salt (PMNs P-99-0368 and P-99-0369) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[65 FR 81398, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.336  Perfluoroalkylethyl acrylate copolymer (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
perfluoroalkylethyl acrylate copolymer (PMN P-94-241) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(y)(1).

[[Page 214]]

    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[61 FR 63734, Dec. 2, 1996]


<R05>
Sec. 721.338  Certain salts of an acrylate copolymer.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as 2-propenoic acid, 
polymer with 2-propenamide, ammonium salt (PMN P-00-0333; CAS No. 55554-
55-7) and generically as salt of an acrylate copolymer (PMN P-00-0334) 
are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(2), (w)(2), and (x)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15079, Mar. 28, 2003, as amended at 79 FR 34636, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.405  Polyether acrylate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
polyether acrylate (PMN P-95-666) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3419, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.430  Oxo-substituted amino al kanoic acid derivative.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as oxo-
substituted amino al kan oic acid derivative (PMN No. P-92-692) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iv), 
(a)(5)(v), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a) through (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(3).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[[Page 215]]

    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 32236, June 8, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.435  Alkylphenylpolyether alk a nol a mines (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
alkylphenylpolyether alk a nol a mines (PMNs P-97-880/881/882) are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44574, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.445  Substituted ethyl alken a mide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted ethyl alkenamide (PMN No. P-86-1315) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and 
(g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and con sumer activities. Use other 
than polymerizing all residual materials from the manufacture, 
processing, and equipment rinsing of the PMN substance so that no 
monomers of the PMN substance are released to the environment.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[58 FR 32236, June 8, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.450  Hydrofluorochloroalkene (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
hydrofluorochloroalkene (PMN P-97-593) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44574, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.463  Acrylate of polymer based on isophorone diisocyanate
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as acrylate 
of polymer based on isophorone diisocyanate (PMN P-00-0626) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

[[Page 216]]

    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), (c)(4) (N = 3 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15079, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.465  Alkoxylated alkylpolyol acrylates, adduct with alkylamine
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
alkoxylated alkylpolyol acrylates, adduct with alkylamine (PMNs P-98-
0082, P-98-0083, and P-98-0084 are subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15079, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.480  Aminoester of polyalkenylated alkyldicarboxylic acid
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
Aminoester of polyalkenylated alkyldicarboxylic acid (PMN P-99-0115) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81398, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.484  Fluorinated acrylic copolymer (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
fluorinated acrylic copolymer (PMN P-95-1208) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), (x)(1), and (y)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[61 FR 63735, Dec. 2, 1996]


<R05>
Sec. 721.505  Halogenated acrylonitrile.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
halogenated acrylonitrile,

[[Page 217]]

(PMN P-90-299) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), 
(a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(v), (g)(1)(vi), 
(g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), 
(g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. The following recordkeeping 
requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors 
of this substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (h).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[56 FR 15792, Apr. 17, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.520  Alanine, N-(2-carboxyethyl)-N-alkyl-, salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alanine, 
N-(2-carboxyethyl)-N- alkyl-, salt (P-89-336) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), (c)(4) (where N = 100). The requirement of 40 CFR 
721.91(a)(4) that the amount of the substance estimated to be released 
to water is calculated before entering control technology is not 
retained. Instead, if the waste stream containing the PMN substance will 
be treated using biological treatment (activated sludge or equivalent) 
plus clarification, then the amount of PMN substance reasonably likely 
to be removed from the waste stream by such treatment may be subtracted 
in calculating the number of kilograms released. No more than 90 percent 
removal efficiency may be attributed to such treatment.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. The following recordkeeping 
requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors 
of this substance as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), 
(h), (i), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 15789, Apr. 17, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.522  Oxirane, methyl-, polymer with oxirane, mono
(3,5,5,-trimethylhexyl) ether.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as oxirane, methyl-, 
polymer with oxirane, mono (3,5,5,-trimethylhexyl) ether (PMN P-99-669, 
SNUN S-09-1, and SNUN S-13-29; CAS No. 204336-40-3) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is use other than as a 
wetting agent, dispersing agent and defoaming/deaerating agent in 
waterborne coatings, inks, and paints, water based adhesives, and 
ultraviolet curable coatings; wetting agent in water miscible

[[Page 218]]

metalworking fluids, powdered construction additives for use in 
cementitious mortars, grouts and tile adhesives, and in liquid 
admixtures for concrete; and a substrate wetting and anticratering 
additive for ultraviolet curable inkjet ink.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[68 FR 15080, Mar. 28, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 37164, June 30, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.524  Alcohols, C [bdi6]-[bdi1][bdi2], ethoxylated, reaction
product with maleic anhydride.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alcohols, C<INF>6-12</INF>, ethoxylated, reaction product with maleic 
anhydride (PMN P-88-1108) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 300).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3419, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.525  1-propanol, 3-propoxy-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-propanol, 3-
propoxy- (PMN P-00-0827; CAS No. 4161-22-2) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(2)(i) and (a)(3).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o) and (j).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[68 FR 15080, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.530  Propanoyl chloride, 3-chloro-2,2-dimethyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as propanoyl chloride, 
3-chloro-2,2-dimethyl- (PMN P-84-491; CAS No. 4300-97-4) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i) through (a)(5)(iii), (a)(6)(v), 
(a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b)(2), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f) 
and (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(v), and (g)(4)(i). The 
provisions of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring employees to be provided with 
information on

[[Page 219]]

the location and availability of a written hazard communication program 
and MSDSs do not apply when the written program and MSDS are not 
required under Sec. 721.72 (a) and (c), respectively. The provision of 
Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information on an MSDS 
does not apply when an MSDS is not required under Sec. 721.72(c).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(b)(1) and (c)(1). (In lieu of incineration, persons subject to this 
section may dispose of wastes containing the substance by chemically 
treating liquid wastes so that the first hydrolysis product is less than 
10 ppm prior to discharge or purifying the waste stream so that the 
first hydrolysis product is less than 10 ppm. Those purified waste 
streams may be reused or sold. All of the substance removed by these 
processes must be incinerated or treated and released as described in 
this paragraph (a)(2)(iv).)
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (c), (e) through 
(f), (i) and (j).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 32412, Aug. 9, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 
24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 79 FR 34636, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.532  1-Butanol, 3-methoxy-3-methyl-, acetate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-butanol, 3-
methoxy-3-methyl-, acetate (PMN P-00-618; SNUN S-05-03; and SNUN S-11-4; 
CAS No. 103429-90-9) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. The significant new use is any use other than 
the use described in P-00-618.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (3) The significant new uses for any use other than the use 
described in P-00-618:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(3)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and 
(c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed 
as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) engineering control measures (e.g., 
enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local 
ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace 
policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent 
exposure, where feasible. Butyl rubber gloves with a minimum thickness 
of 16.6 mils or Silver shield gloves with a minimum thickness of 2.7 
mils have been tested in accordance with the American Society for 
Testing Materials (ASTM) F739 method and found by EPA to satisfy the 
consent orders and Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(i) requirements for dermal 
protection to 100 percent chemical substance. Silver Shield gloves with 
a minimum thickness of 2.7 mils have been tested in accordance with the 
American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM) F739 method and found by 
EPA to satisfy the consent orders and Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(i) requirements 
for dermal protection for paint formulations where concentrations of the 
chemical substance is 10% or less. Gloves and other dermal protection 
may not be used for a time period longer than they are actually tested 
and must be replaced at the end of each work shift.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (c), (d), (f), 
(g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), 
(g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(f), (o), and any application method that 
generates a vapor,

[[Page 220]]

mist, or aerosol when the percent concentration of the SNUN substance in 
the final product exceeds 10%.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of 
this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[68 FR 15080, Mar. 28, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 37164, June 30, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.533  Propane, 1,1,1,3,3-pentachloro-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as propane, 1,1,1,3,3-
pentachloro- (PMN P-99-1327; CAS No. 23153-23-3) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15080, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.535  Halogenated alkane (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
halogenated alkane (PMN P-01-433) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70174, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.536  Halogenated phenyl alkane.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
halogenated phenyl alkane (PMN P-89-867) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply once the 
substance has been incorporated into a resin.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (6)(i), (b) 
(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). As an alternative to the 
respiratory requirements in this section, manufacturers, importers, and 
processors may use the New Chemical Exposure Limits provisions, 
including sampling and analytical methods which have previously been 
approved by EPA for this substance, found in the 5(e) consent order for 
this substance. As an alternative to the respiratory requirements in 
this section manufacturers, importers, and processors may use the New 
Chemical Exposure Limits provisions, including sampling and analytical 
methods which have previously been approved by EPA for this substance, 
found in the 5(e) consent order for this substance.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).

[[Page 221]]

    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) [Reserved]
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 51681, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.537  Organosilane ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an 
organosilane ester (PMN P-96-1661/P-95-1654) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(r) (370,000 kilogram (kg)) (90-day subchronic 
inhalation study in rats-(40 CFR 799.9346) (62 FR 43828, August 15, 
1997) (FRL-5719-5). A person may not manufacture or import the substance 
beyond the aggregate production volume limit, unless that person 
conducts this study on the substance and submits all final reports and 
underlying data in accordance with the procedures and criteria specified 
in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A), (a)(2)(i)(B), (a)(2)(i)(C), and (a)(2)(i)(D) 
of this section.
    (A) Each study required to be performed pursuant to this section 
must be scientifically valid. Scientific valid means that the study was 
conducted according to:
    (1) The test guidelines specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this 
section.
    (2) An EPA-approved protocol.
    (3) TSCA Good Laboratory Practice Standards at 40 CFR part 792.
    (4) Using methodologies generally accepted at the time the study is 
initiated.
    (5) Any deviation from these requirements must be approved in 
writing by EPA.
    (B) Before starting to conduct any of the studies in paragraph 
(a)(2)(i) of this section, the person must obtain approval of test 
protocols from EPA by submitting written protocols. EPA will respond to 
the person within 4 weeks of receiving the written protocols. Published 
test guidelines specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section (e.g., 
40 CFR part 797 or part 798) provide general guidance for development of 
test protocols, but are not themselves acceptable protocols.
    (C) The person shall:
    (1) Conduct each study in good faith with due care.
    (2) Promptly furnish to EPA the results of any interim phase of each 
study.
    (3) Submit, in triplicate (with an additional sanitized copy, if 
confidential business information is involved), the final report of each 
study and all underlying data (``the report and data'') to EPA no later 
than 14 weeks prior to exceeding the applicable production volume limit. 
The final report shall contain the contents specified in 40 CFR 792.185.
    (D)(1) Except as described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(D)(2) of this 
section, if, within 6 weeks of EPA's receipt of a test report and data, 
the person receives written notice that EPA finds that the data 
generated by a study are scientifically invalid, the person is 
prohibited from further manufacture and import of the PMN substance 
beyond the applicable production volume limit.
    (2) The person may continue to manufacture and import the PMN 
substance beyond the applicable production limit only if so notified, in 
writing, by EPA in response to the person's compliance with either of 
the following paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(D)(2)(i) or (a)(2)(i)(D)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[[Page 222]]

    (i) The person may reconduct the study. If there is sufficient time 
to reconduct the study and submit the report and data to EPA at least 14 
weeks before exceeding the production limit as required by paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(C)(3) of this section, the person shall comply with paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(C)(3) of this section. If there is insufficient time for the 
person to comply with paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(C)(3) of this section, the 
person may exceed the production limit and shall submit the report and 
data in triplicate to EPA within a reasonable period of time, all as 
specified by EPA in the notice described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(D)(1) of 
this section. EPA will respond to the person in writing, within 6 weeks 
of receiving the person's report and data.
    (ii) The person may, within 4 weeks of receiving from EPA the notice 
described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(D)(1) of this section, submit to EPA a 
written report refuting EPA's finding. EPA will respond to the person in 
writing, within 4 weeks of receiving the person's report.
    (E) The person is not required to conduct a study specified in 
paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section if notified in writing by EPA that 
it is unnecessary to conduct that study.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3419, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.538  Phenol, 4-(1,1-dimethyl- ethyl)-, homopolymer.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phenol, 4-(1,1-
dimethylethyl)-, homopolymer (PMN P-95-243; CAS No. 30813-81-1) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
    (2) High moleculation weight exemption. A batch of the chemical 
substance may be exempt from the provisions of this rule if the average 
number molecular weight of the substance is greater than 1,000 and the 
low molecular weight species below 1,000 and 500 are less than 25 
percent and 10 percent, respectively. To be eligible for this exemption, 
the batch must be individually measured.
    (3) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (d), (f), (g)(3)(i), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5). The label 
and material safety data sheet (MSDS) as required by this paragraph 
shall also include the following statement: This substance is toxic to 
aquatic invertebrate.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activites. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4) and (b)(4) (N = 9). When calculating the surface water 
concentrations according to the instructions in Sec. 721.91, the 
statement that the amount of the substance that will be released will be 
calculated before the substance enters control technology does not 
apply. Instead, if the waste stream containing the substance will be 
treated using primary and secondary wastewater treatment with control of 
suspended solids, before release, then the amount of the substance 
reasonably likely to be removed from the waste stream by such treatment 
may be subtracted in calculating the number of kilograms released. No 
more than 95 percent removal efficiency may be attributed to such 
treatment. These requirements do not apply to the sites specifically 
exempted in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[[Page 223]]

    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[63 FR 3420, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.539  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), [alpha]-sulfo-[omega]-[1-
[(4-nonylphenoxy)methyl]-2-(2-propenyloxy)ethoxy]-, branched,
ammonium salts.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as Poly(oxy-1,2-
ethanediyl), [alpha]-sulfo-[omega]-[1-[(4-nonylphenoxy)methyl]-2-(2-
propenyloxy)ethoxy]-, branched, ammonium salts (PMN P-96-1240; CAS No. 
184719-88-8) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3420, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.540  Alkylphenoxypolyalkoxy amine (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
akylphenoxypolyalkoxyamine (PMN P-86-1489) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (b)(2), (c), (f), and (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (ii) Release to water. Section 721.90 (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (f), (g), (h), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain requirements. The 
provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 26097, June 26, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.545  Polyalkenylalkylphenol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
Polyalkenylalkylphenol (PMN P-99-0472) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[65 FR 81398, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.550  Alkyl alkenoate, azobis-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkyl 
alkenoate, azobis- (PMN P-88-2470) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i) through (a)(5)(iii),

[[Page 224]]

(a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b)(2), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(iii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). 
The provisions of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring employees to be provided 
with information on the location and availability of a written hazard 
communication program and MSDSs do not apply when the written program 
and MSDS are not required under Sec. 721.72 (a) and (c), respectively. 
The provision of Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific 
information on an MSDS does not apply when an MSDS is not required under 
Sec. 721.72(c).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (l) and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (e), (f), (g), 
and (h).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 46771, Nov. 6, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 
24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.555  Alkyl amino nitriles (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as alkyl 
amino nitriles (PMNs P-96-1674 and P-96-1675) are subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(2)(iii), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(ii),(a)(6)(v), and (c). A 
full face shield is required if splashing or spraying occurs.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (c)(1) and (c)(2)(iv). The MSDS required by this paragraph 
shall include the following statement: Ocular exposure may cause death.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (g) and (l).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 65709, Nov. 30, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.558  2-Propanol, 1,1'-iminobis-, N-tallow alkyl derivs.,
hydrochlorides.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propanol, 1,1'-
iminobis-, N-tallow alkyl derivs., hydrochlorides (PMN P-96-1426; CAS 
No. 1078715-59-9) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44575, Aug. 20, 1998, as amended at 79 FR 34636, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.562  Substituted alkylamine salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 225]]

chemical substance identified generically as a substituted alkylamine 
salt (PMN P-85-941) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where n = 70).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 45080, Aug. 30, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.575  Substituted alkyl halide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted alkyl halide (PMN P-83-1222) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i) through (a)(5)(iii), (a)(6)(v), 
(a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), and 
(g)(2)(v). The provisions of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring employees to be 
provided with information on the location and availability of a written 
hazard communication program and MSDSs do not apply when the written 
program and MSDS are not required under Sec. 721.72 (a), and (c), 
respectively. The provisions of Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement of 
specific information on a label and MSDS do not apply when a label and 
MSDS are not required under Sec. 721.72 (b), and (c), respectively.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(h).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (e), and (f).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 46772, Nov. 6, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.600  3-Alkyl-2-(2-anilino)vinyl thi azolinium salt 
(generic name).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 3-alkyl-
2-(2-ani lino)vin yl thi azo li nium salt (PMN P-84-1007) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), 
(a)(5)(vi), (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b)(2), (c), (d), (e), (f) [concentration set at 1 
percent], (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1) (may be lethal if inhaled or in contact 
with eyes), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). 
The provision of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring that employees be provided 
with information on the location and availability of MSDSs does not 
apply when an MSDS is not required under Sec. 721.72(c). The provision 
of Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information on an 
MSDS does not apply when an MSDS in not required under Sec. 721.72(c).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 226]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[55 FR 26102, June 26, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.625  Alkylated diarylamine, sul furized (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkylated diarylamine, sul furized (PMN P-89-506) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(q)
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), and (c).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 26099, June 26, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.630  Salt of a modified tallow alkylenediamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a salt 
of a modified tallow alkylenediamine (PMN P-96-1425) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44575, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.632  Silicoaluminophosphates, compd. with organic amine
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
Silicoaluminophosphates, compd. with organic amine (PMN P-98-1274) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2)of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (b) and (c). As an alternative to the 
respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or 
processor may choose to follow the New Chemical Exposure Limit (NCEL) 
provisions listed in the section TSCA 5(e) consent order for these 
substances. The NCEL is 0.1 mg/m\3\ as an 8-hour time weighted average 
verified by actual monitoring data.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1) (vii), 
(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),

[[Page 227]]

(b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[65 FR 81398, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.633  Aluminosilicates, phospho-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as aluminosilicates, 
phospho- (PMN P-98-1275 and SNUN S-11-10; CAS No. 201167-69-3) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (b), and (c). When determining which persons are 
reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4) 
engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the 
operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following 
NIOSH-certified respirators with an APF of at least 50 meet the 
requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified air-purifying, 
tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols 
absent), R100, or P100 filters; NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying 
respirator equipped with a tight-fitting full facepiece and high 
efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters; NIOSH-certified supplied-air 
respirator operated in positive pressure demand or continuous flow mode 
and equipped with a hood, or helmet or tight-fitting facepiece. As an 
alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer 
or processor may choose to follow the New Chemical Exposure Limit (NCEL) 
provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for these 
substances. The NCEL is 0.1 mg/m\3\ as an 8-hour time weighted average 
verified by actual monitoring data.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1) (vii), 
(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), and (h) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[65 FR 81399, Dec. 26, 2000, as amended at 80 FR 37164, June 30, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.638  Silyl amine, potassium salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as silyl 
amine, potassium salt (PMN P-00-1086) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15080, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.639  Amine aldehyde condensate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an amine 
aldehyde condensate (PMN P-94-1810) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.

[[Page 228]]

    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 45080, Aug. 30, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.640  Amine substituted metal salts.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as amine 
substituted metal salts (PMNs P-96-1337/1338/1339) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 4).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3421, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.641  Alkylpoly(oxyalkylene)amine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an 
alkylpoly(oxyalkylene)amine (PMN P-96-1430) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3421, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.642  Amines, N-(C [bdi1][bdi4]-[bdi1][bdi8] and C [bdi1]
[bdi8]-[bdi1][bdi8] unsaturated alkyl)] dipropylene-tri-, 
tripropylenetetra-, and tetrapropylenepenta-.
          

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances amines, N-(C<INF>14-18</INF> and 
C<INF>16-18</INF> unsaturated alkyl)] dipropylenetri-, (PMN P-94-1244), 
tripropylenetetra- (PMN P-94-1245), and tetrapropylenepenta- (PMN P-94-
1246) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements specified 
in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 11041, Mar. 1, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.643  Ethoxylated alcohol, phosphated, amine salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as an ethoxylated 
alcohol, phosphated,

[[Page 229]]

amine salt (PMN P-96-1478) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 8).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3421, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.644  Amines, C [bdi1][bdi2]-[bdi1][bdi4]-tert-alkyl, 
sulfonates.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as amines, 
C<INF>12-14</INF>-tert-alkyl, sulfonates (PMN P-98-400; CAS No. 197527-
19-8) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 366, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.646  Aminofluoran derivative (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
aminofluoran derivative (PMN P-95-512) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[61 FR 63735, Dec. 2, 1996]


<R05>
Sec. 721.647  Alkoxylated alkyl amine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an 
alkoxylated alkyl amine (PMN P-01-578) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[68 FR 70174, Dec. 17, 2003]

[[Page 230]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.648  Alkyl dialkylamino phenylsulfonyl alkenoate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkyl 
dialkylamino phenylsulfonyl alkenoate (PMN P-00-0816) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15080, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.650  11-Aminoundecanoic acid.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance 11-ami no un de ca noic acid, CAS Number 
2432-99-7, is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is any use other than as.
    (i) An intermediate in the manufacture of polymers in an enclosed 
process when it is expected that the 11-aminoundecanoic acid will be 
fully polymerized during the manufacturing process, or
    (ii) A component in photoprocessing solutions.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Definitions. In addition to the definitions in Sec. 721.3, the 
following definitions apply to this section:
    (i) Enclosed process means a process that is designed and operated 
so that there is no intentional release of any substance present in the 
process. A process with fugitive, inadvertent, or emergency pressure 
relief releases remains an enclosed process so long as measures are 
taken to prevent worker exposure to and environmental contamination from 
the releases.
    (ii) Internal subunit means a subunit that is covalently linked to 
at least two other subunits. Internal subunits of polymer molecules are 
chemically derived from monomer molecules that have formed covalent 
links between two or more other molecules.
    (iii) Monomer means a chemical substance that has the capacity to 
form links between two or more other molecules.
    (iv) Polymer means a chemical substance that consists of at least a 
simple weight majority of polymer molecules but consists of less than a 
simple weight majority of molecules with the same molecular weight. 
Collectively, such polymer molecules must be distributed over a range of 
molecular weights wherein differences in molecular weight are primarly 
attributable to differences in the number of internal subunits.
    (v) Polymer molecule means a molecule which includes at least four 
covalently linked subunits, at least two of which are internal subunits.
    (vi) Subunit means an atom or group of associated atoms chemically 
derived from corresponding reactants.
    (2) [Reserved]

[52 FR 19865, May 28, 1987. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. 
Further redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.655  Ethoxylated alkyl quaternary ammonium compound.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an 
ethoxylated alkyl quaternary ammonium compound (PMN P-96-573) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 231]]

    (i) Industrial, commercial and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3421, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.715  Trisubstituted anthracene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
trisubstituted anthracene (PMN P-91-689) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3), (a)(4), 
(a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), 
(b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), 
(g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (First limit set at 500 kg; second limit 
set at 25,000 kg).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 10 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[59 FR 27481, May 27, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.720  Alkoxylated fatty acid amide, alkylsulfate salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an 
alkoxylated fatty acid amide, alkylsulfate salt (PMN P-97-136) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(l).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3422, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.750  Aromatic amine compound.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance aromatic amine compound (PMN P-86-
334) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent) and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b)(2), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(iii), and (g)(2)(v). 
The provisions of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring employees to be provided 
with information on the location and availability of a written hazard 
communication program and MSDSs do not apply when

[[Page 232]]

the written program and MSDS are not required under Sec. 721.72 (a) and 
(c), respectively. The provisions of Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement 
of specific information on a label and MSDS do not apply when a label 
and MSDS are not required under Sec. 721.72 (b) and (c), respectively.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (e) and (f).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 39899, Sept. 28, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.757  Polyoxyalkylene substituted aromatic azo colorant.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyoxyalkylene substituted aromatic azo colorant (PMN P-92-1131) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (w)(1) and (w)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51681, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.775  Brominated aromatic com pound (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
brominated aromatic compound (PMN P-84-824) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), 
(a)(5)(vi), (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b)(1), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), 
(g)(2)(iv), and (g)(2)(v). The provision of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring 
that employees be provided with information on the location and 
availability of MSDSs does not apply when an MSDS is not required under 
Sec. 721.72(c). The provision of Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement of 
specific information on an MSDS does not apply when an MSDS in not 
required under Sec. 721.72(c).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (j) (use as an additive flame retardant for 
plastics) and (q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (g), (i), and (k).
    (2) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.
    (3) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[55 FR 26098, June 26, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]

[[Page 233]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.785  Halogenated alkane aromatic compound (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
halogenated alkane aromatic compound (PMN P-94-1747) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (6)(i), (b) 
(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activites. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[61 FR 63735, Dec. 2, 1996]


<R05>
Sec. 721.805  Benzenamine, 4,4'-[1,3-phenylenebis
(1-methylethyl idene)]bis[2,6-dimethyl-.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance benzenamine, 4,4'-[1,3-
phenylenebis(1-methyl ethylidene)]bis[2,6-dimethyl- (CAS Registry Number 
2716-12-3; PMN P-86-501) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv) through (a)(5)(xv), (a)(6)(i), 
(a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.72 
(a), (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), 
and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(l).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), (c)(1), (a)(2), (b)(2), and (c)(2).
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(2)(vi), (b)(2)(vi), and (c)(2)(vi).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of these substances .
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 31330, July 15, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 
FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.825  Certain aromatic ether diamines.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The following chemical substances are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(4) of this section: Benzenamine, 
4,4'-[[1,1'-biphenyl]-2,5-diylbis(oxy)]bis- (CAS Number 94148-67-1, 
Premanufacture notice (PMN) P-85-335); 1,2,4,5-benzenetetracarboxylic 
acid, diethyl ester, compound with 4,4'-[[1,1'-biphenyl]-2,5-
diylbis(oxy)]bis[benzenamine] (1:1) (PMN P-85-336); and 1,2,4,5-
benzenetetracarboxylic acid, 1,4-diethyl ester, compound with 4,4'-
[[1,1'-

[[Page 234]]

biphenyl]-2,5-diylbis(oxy)]bis[benzenamine] (1:1), polymer with 4,4'-
[[1,1'-biphenyl]-2,5-diylbis(oxy)]bis[benzenamine]-1,5-diethyl-1,2,4,5-
benzenetetra carboxylate (1:1), reaction products with phthalic 
anhydride (PMN P-86-1153).
    (2) The significant new use for P-85-335 is: Manufacture, import, or 
processing in a quantity of 100,000 pounds per year, or greater, for any 
use.
    (3) The significant new use for P-85-336 is: Any use.
    (4) The significant new use for P-86-1153 is: Manufacture, import, 
or processing in a quantity of 225,000 pounds per year, or greater, for 
any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Persons who must report. Section 721.5 applies to this section 
except Sec. 721.5(a)(2). A person who intends to manufacture, import, 
or process for commercial purposes a substance identified in paragraph 
(a)(3) of this section and intends to distribute the substance in 
commerce must submit a significant new use notice.
    (2) [Reserved]

[59 FR 43296, Aug. 23, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.840  Alkyl substituted diaromatic hydrocarbons.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an alkyl 
substituted di aro matic hydrocarbons (PMN P-91-710) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 46464, Oct. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.843  Substituted phenylazophenylazo phenol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted phenylazophenylazo, phenol (PMN P-00-0420) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15081, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.875  Aromatic nitro compound.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance aromatic nitro compound (PMN P-86-
335) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv) through (a)(5)(vii), 
(a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), and (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(v). The provisions 
of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring employees to be

[[Page 235]]

provided with information on the location and availability of a written 
hazard communication program and MSDSs do not apply when the written 
program and MSDS are not required under Sec. 721.72 (a) and (c), 
respectively. The provisions of Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement of 
specific information on a label and MSDS do not apply when a label and 
MSDS are not required under Sec. 721.72 (b) and (c), respectively.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (e), and (f).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 39899, Sept. 28, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.910  Propanetriol polyalkylenepolyolamine aryl aldimine
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
propanetriol polyalkylenepolyolamine aryl aldimine (PMN P-99-0873) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15081, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.925  Substituted aromatic (generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted aromatic (PMN P-84-954) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), and (g)(2)(v). The provision of Sec. 721.72(d) 
requiring that employees be provided with information on the location 
and availability of MSDSs does not apply when an MSDS is not required 
under Sec. 721.72(c). The provisions of Sec. 721.72(g) requiring 
placement of specific information on a label and MSDS do not apply when 
a label and MSDS are not required under Sec. 721.72 (b) and (c), 
respectively.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (level set at 0.25 ppm).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[55 FR 26098, June 26, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]

[[Page 236]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.950  Sodium salt of an alkylated, sulfonated aromatic
(generic name).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a sodium 
salt of an alkylated, sulfonated aromatic (PMN P-84-591) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (j) (use as a dye leveler) and (q).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 26098, June 26, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.977  Aryloxyarene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
aryloxyarene (PMN P-92-314) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5). The 
label and MSDS as required by this paragraph shall also include the 
following statement: This substance may be toxic to sediment organisms.
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3422, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.980  Sodium salt of azo acid dye.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a sodium 
salt of azo acid dye (PMN P-95-633) is subject to eporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3422, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.981  Substituted naphtholoazo-substituted naphthalenyl-
substituted azonaphthol chromium complex.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted naphtholoazo-substituted naphthalenyl-substituted 
azonaphthol chromium complex (PMN P-93-1631) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (v)(2), (w)(2), and (x)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]

[[Page 237]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3422, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.982  Calcium, bis(2,4-pentanedionato-O,O').

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance calcium, bis(2,4-pentanedionato-
O,O') (PMN P-93-214, CAS no. 19372-44-2) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply if the 
substance is embedded or encapsulated in a plastic matrix.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), 
(a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), (b) (concentration set a 1.0 
percent); and (c). As an alternative to the respiratory requirements in 
this section, manufacturers, importers, and processors may use the New 
Chemical Exposure Limits provisions, including sampling and analytical 
methods which have previously been approved by EPA for this substance, 
found in the 5(e) consent order for this substance.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), and 
(g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(l).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (d), (f) through (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[59 FR 27482, May 27, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.983  Sulfonyl azide intermediate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as sulfonyl 
azide intermediate (PMN P-99-1202) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(1) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(f), (v)(1), and (x)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70174, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.984  Amino-hydroxy sulfonaphthylazo-disubstituted phenyl
azo benzene carboxylate salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as amino-
hydroxy sulfonaphthylazo-disubstituted phenyl azo benzene carboxylate 
salt (PMN P-00-0351) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(2), (w)(2), (x)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 238]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15081, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.987  Dialkylaminophenyl imino pyrazole acid ester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
dialkylaminophenyl imino pyrazole acid ester (PMN P-98-45) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44575, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.988  Pyrazolone azomethine dye (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
pyrazolone azomethine dye (PMN P-98-91) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44575, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.990  1,4-Benzedicarboxylic acid, dimethyl ester, polymer
with 1,4 - butanediol, cyclized.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,4-
benzedicarboxylic acid, dimethyl ester, polymer with 1,4 - butanediol, 
cyclized (PMN P-00-0789; CAS No. 263244-54-8) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15081, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1000  Benzenamine, 3-chloro-2,6-dinitro-N,N-dipropyl-4-
(tri fluoro methyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzenamine, 3-
chloro-2,6-dinitro-N,N-dipropyl-4-(trifluoromethyl)- (P-86-83) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).

[[Page 239]]

    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), and (g)(2)(v). The 
provision of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring that employees be provided with 
information on the location and availability of MSDSs does not apply 
when an MSDS is not required under Sec. 721.72(c). The provision of 
Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information in an MSDS 
or label does not apply when an MSDS and label are not required under 
Sec. 721.72(c).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 720.80(h).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(3), (b)(1), (b)(3), (c)(1), and (c)(3).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (f), (i), and (j).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[56 FR 25989, June 5, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1025  Benzenamine, 4-chloro-2-methyl-; benzenamine, 
4-chloro-2-methyl-, hydrochloride; and ben zenamine, 
2-chloro-6-methyl-.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new use subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances benzenamine, 4-chloro-2-methyl- 
(CAS Number 95-69-2); benzenamine, 4-chloro-2-methyl-, hydrochloride 
(CAS Number 3165-93-3); and benzenamine, 2-chloro-6-methyl- (CAS Number 
87-63-8) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph:
    (1) Persons who must report. Section 721.5 applies to this section 
except for Sec. 721.5(a)(2). A person who intends to manufacture, 
import, or process for commercial purposes a substance identified in 
paragraph (a)(1) of this section and intends to distribute the substance 
in commerce must submit a significant new use notice.
    (2) [Reserved]

[54 FR 12447, Mar. 27, 1989; 54 FR 17707, Apr. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 
58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1050  Benzenamine, 2,5-dibutoxy-4-(4-morpholinyl)-, sulfate.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzenamine, 2,5-
dibutoxy-4-(4-morpholinyl), sulfate (PMN P-90-1809; CAS number 130169-
66-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i) and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), unless the substance is released to the Passaic Valley 
Sewerage Commission publicly-owned treatment works (NPDES Number 
NJ0021016) which discharges to the New York Bay.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f) through (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44061, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]

[[Page 240]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1055  Benzeneamine, 3,5-difluoro-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzeneamine, 3,5-
difluoro- (PMN P-97-648; CAS No. 372-39-4) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(i), 
(a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). As an 
alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, 
importer, or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure 
limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order 
for this substance. This NCEL is set at 0.4 mg/m\3\.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), 
(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), 
(g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (g) and (q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), 
(g), (h), (i) and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[65 FR 367, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1068  Benzenamine, 4-isocyanato-N,N-bis(4-isocyanatophenyl)
-2,5-dimethoxy-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzenamine, 4-
isocyanato-N,N- bis(4-isocyanatophenyl)-2,5-dimethoxy- (PMN P-92-168) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), 
(a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and 
(c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), 
(g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (22,000 kg).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51682, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1070  Benzenamine, 4-methoxy-2-methyl-N-(3-methylphenyl).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
benzenamine, 4-methoxy-2-methyl-N-(3-methylphenyl) (PMN P-01-152; CAS 
No. 93072-06-1) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 5).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a),

[[Page 241]]

(b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70174, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1075  Benzenamine, 4-(1-methyl bu toxy)-, hydrochloride.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzenamine, 4-(1-
methylbutoxy)-, hydrochloride (PMN P-90-559) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), 
(a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), 
(g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(l).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Modifications or revocation of certain notification 
requirements. The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 44062, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1085  Benzenamine,4,4'-methylenebis[N-ethyl-N-methyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as a Benzenamine,4,4'-
methylenebis[N-ethyl-N-methyl- (PMN P-99-0557; CAS No. 76176-94-8) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81399, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1105  Benzenamine, 4,4'-methylenebis[2-methyl-6-
(1-methylethyl)]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzenamine, 4,4'-
methylenebis[2-methyl-6-(1-methylethyl)]- (PMN P-96-93; CAS No. 16298-
38-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3422, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1120  Benzenamine, 4,4'-[1,4-phenyl ene bis(1-methyl ethyli
dene)]bis[2,6-dimethyl-.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance benzenamine,

[[Page 242]]

4,4'-[1,4-phenylenebis(1-methylethylidene)]bis- (CAS Registry Number 
2716-10-1; PMN P-86-503) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.72 
(a), (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(l).
    (iii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), (c)(1), (a)(2), (b)(2), and (c)(2).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(2)(vi), (b)(2)(vi), and (c)(2)(vi).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), (j), and 
(k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of these 
substances .
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 31330, July 15, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 
FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1150  Substituted polyglycidyl ben zena mine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The following chemical substance, referred to by 
premanufacture notice number and its generic chemical name, is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section: Substituted polyglycidyl 
benzeneamine, P-83-394.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Use in spray applications.
    (ii) Manufacture or processing without establishing a program 
whereby:
    (A) During all stages of manufacture and processing of the 
substance, and during response to emergencies and spills involving the 
substance, any person employed by or under the control of the 
manufacturer or processor who may potentially be dermally exposed to the 
substance wears:
    (1) Gloves which cover the arm up to the elbow and which have been 
determined to be impervious to the substance under conditions of 
exposure (gloves may be determined to be impervious by standard testing 
methods or by reliance on the manufacturer's specifications for those 
gloves selected);
    (2) A face shield of at least 8 inches in length; and
    (3) Clothing which covers any other exposed areas of the arms, legs, 
and torso.
    (B) All workers described in paragraph (a)(ii)(A) of this section 
are informed in writing, or by presenting the information as part of a 
training program in a safety meeting where attendance is recorded, of 
the following: To avoid all contact with this substance; that 
structurally similar chemicals have been found to cause cancer, 
reproductive effects, kidney and liver effects in laboratory animals, 
and allergic reactions in humans; that this substance is a severe skin 
and eye irritant; and that the use of impervious gloves, face shields 
and other clothing to cover exposed areas of the arms, the legs, and the 
torso is required.
    (C) A label is affixed to each container of the substance or of a 
formulation containing the substance which (in a print size no smaller 
than ten point type) contains, at a minimum, the following information:

WARNING: CONTACT WITH SKIN AND EYES IS HARMFUL

--Severe skin and eye irritant.
--Similar chemicals cause cancer, reproductive effects, and kidney and 
liver changes in laboratory animals. They have also caused allergic 
reactions in humans.
--Prevent all contact with skin, eyes, and clothing.
--Wear impervious gloves, face shield, and protective clothing. Promptly 
remove and wash contaminated non-impervious clothing before re-use.
--Wash thoroughly after handling and before eating, drinking, or 
smoking.

STORAGE INSTRUCTIONS:

--Keep closure tight and upright to prevent leakage.

[[Page 243]]

--Keep container closed during shipment and when not in use.
--In case of spillage absorb with sand or vermiculite and flush with 
plenty of water.

FIRST AID:

--In case of eye contact, immediately flush with plenty of water and get 
immediate medical attention.
--In case of skin contact, immediately wash with soap and water and get 
immediate medical attention.

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. In addition to the requirements of Sec. 721.17, 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of the chemical substance 
identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must maintain the 
following records for five years from their creation:
    (i) The names of persons informed, the date they are informed, and 
the means by which they are informed in accordance with paragraph 
(a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.
    (ii) The names of any transferee and the dates of any transfers of 
containers which are labeled in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(C) 
of this section.
    (iii) The method used to determine that the protective gloves are 
impervious to the substance and date and the results of that 
determination.
    (2) [Reserved]

[49 FR 43653, Oct. 31, 1984. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. 
Further redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 
34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1155  1,4-benzenediol, 2-(1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutyl)- and
Bis(dimethylamino substituted)carbomonocycle.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 1,4-
benzenediol, 2-(1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutyl)- and Bis (dimethylamino 
substituted)carbomonocycle (PMN P-96-92) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3422, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1187  Bis(imidoethylene) benzene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance bis(imidoethylene)benzene (PMN P-
93-1447) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements specified 
in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 11041, Mar. 1, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1193  Benzene, 2-bromo-1,4-dimethoxy-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzene, 2-bromo-
1,4-dimethoxy- (PMN P-95-17, CAS No. 25245-34-5) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 244]]

    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 45081, Aug. 30, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1210  Benzene, (2-chloroethoxy)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzene, (2-
chloroethoxy)- (PMN P-87-1471) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3) (applies to gloves 
only), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), (f), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), 
(g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(b)(1) and (c)(1). Disposal other than as described in the 
premanufacture notice referenced in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44062, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1225  Benzene, 1,2-dimethyl-, poly propene derivatives,
sulfonated, po tas sium salts.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzene, 1,2-
dimethyl-, polypropene derivatives, sulfonated, potassium salts (PMN P-
89-711) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent, and 
(f). The following environmental hazard statement shall appear on each 
label as specified in Sec. 721.72(b) of this section and the MSDS as 
specified in Sec. 721.72(c) of this section: EPA is requiring aquatic 
toxicity testing and fate testing for a substance in this product. These 
requirements are based on EPA's determination that the substance causes 
toxicity to fish and aquatic organisms based on data on the substance 
and similar sulfonate compounds. EPA has further determined that 
discharge of this substance may cause toxicity to fish and aquatic 
organisms at concentrations as low as 25 ppb. Water releases of the 
substance are subject to an EPA Significant New Use Rule (SNUR) under 40 
CFR part 721 which requires that EPA be notified 90 days prior to use 
resulting in surface water concentrations in excess of this level.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (l) and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 25 ppb). The requirement of 40 CFR 
721.91(a)(4) that the amount of the substance estimated to be released 
to water is calculated before entering control technology is not

[[Page 245]]

retained. If the waste stream containing the substance will be treated 
using biological treatment (activated sludge or equivalent) plus 
clarification, then the amount of substance reasonably likely to be 
removed from the waste stream by such treatment may be subtracted in 
calculating the number of kilograms released. No more than 50 percent 
removal efficiency may attributed to such treatment.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. The following recordkeeping 
requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors 
of this substance: Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and 
(k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 15789, Apr. 17, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1230  Benzene, ethenyl-, ar-bromo derivatives.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzene, ethenyl-, 
ar-bromo derivatives (PMN P-84-660; CAS No. 125904-11-2) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this SNUR do not 
apply when the substance is present only in a mixture or in a polymer 
matrix, if the combined concentration of this substance and the 
substance identified in Sec. 721.1240 as benzene, (2-bromoethyl)-, ar-
bromo derivatives (PMN P-84-704; CAS No. 125904-10-1), present as 
residual monomers in the mixture or polymer matrix, does not exceed 0.5% 
by weight or volume. This exemption does not apply if there is reason to 
believe that during intended use, processing, or other handling, these 
substances combined may be reconcentrated above the 0.5% level in the 
mixture or polymer matrix.
    (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Protection in the workplace. 
Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(1) (including when the 
substance becomes airborne in any form), (a)(3), (a)(4) (when the 
substance becomes airborne in any form), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(xii), 
(a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xiv), (a)(5)(xv) and (c). As an alternative to the 
respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or 
processor may choose to follow the NCEL provisions in the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), 
(g)(1)(vi) (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), 
(g)(2)(v), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (a), (b), (j) (flame retardant), and (l).
    (iv) Disposal. It is a significant new use to dispose of the 
substance other than as follows:
    (A) The following forms of the substance - the substance as a 
commercial chemical product or manufacturing chemical intermediate; the 
substance as an off-specification commercial chemical product or 
manufacturing chemical intermediate; the substance as a residue 
remaining in a container or in an inner liner removed from a container 
that has held the substance, unless the container is empty as defined in 
40 CFR 261.7(b)(3); any residue or contaminated soil, water, or other 
debris resulting from the cleanup of a spill into or on any land or 
water of the substance as a commercial chemical product or manufacturing 
chemical intermediate, or any residue or contaminated soil, water, or 
other debris resulting from the cleanup of a spill into or on any land 
or water, of the substance as an off-specification commercial chemical 
product or manufacturing chemical intermediate; and any waste stream 
containing greater than 1.0% of this substance and the substance 
identified in Sec. 721.1240 combined - shall be disposed of as follows: 
Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), (b)(1), (c)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(2), and (c)(2); the landfill shall be operated in accordance

[[Page 246]]

with Subtitle C of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
    (B) Any forms of the substance other than those described in 
paragraph (a)(2)(iv)(A) of this section, including waste streams 
containing 1.0% or less of this substance and the substance identified 
in Sec. 721.1240, shall be disposed of as follows: Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), (c)(1), (a)(2), (b)(2), (c)(2), (a)(3), (b)(3), (c)(3), carbon 
adsorption followed by either physical destruction, or as specified in 
Sec. 721.90; the landfill shall be operated in accordance with the 
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(2)(iv), (b)(2)(iv), (c)(2)(iv), (a)(2)(v), (b)(2)(v), (c)(2)(v), 
(a)(3), (b)(3), and (c)(3).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[67 FR 17647, Apr. 11, 2002]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1240  Benzene, (2-bromoethyl)-, ar-bromo derivatives.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzene, (2-
bromoethyl)-, ar-bromo derivatives (PMN P-84-704; CAS No. 125904-10-1) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this 
SNUR do not apply when the substance is present only in a mixture or in 
a polymer matrix, if the combined concentration of this substance and 
the substance identified in Sec. 721.1230 as benzene, ethenyl-, ar-
bromo derivatives (PMN P-84-660; CAS No.125904-11-2) present as residual 
monomers in the mixture or polymer matrix, does not exceed 0.5% by 
weight or volume. This exemption does not apply if there is reason to 
believe that during intended use, processing, or other handling, these 
substances combined may be reconcentrated above the 0.5% level in the 
mixture or polymer matrix.
    (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Protection in the workplace. 
Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(1) (including when the 
substance becomes airborne in any form), (a)(3), (a)(4) (when the 
substance becomes airborne in any form), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(xii), 
(a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xiv), (a)(5)(xv), and (c). As an alternative to the 
respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or 
processor may choose to follow the NCEL provisions in the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), 
(g)(1)(vi) (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), 
(g)(2)(v), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (a), (b), (c), (h) (in the manufacture of 
the substance identified in Sec. 721.1230), and (l).
    (iv) Disposal. It is a significant new use to dispose of the 
substance other than as follows:
    (A) The following forms of the substance - the substance as a 
commercial chemical product or manufacturing chemical intermediate; the 
substance as an off-specification commercial chemical product or 
manufacturing chemical intermediate; the substance as a residue 
remaining in a container or in an inner liner removed from a container 
that has held the substance, unless the container is empty as defined in 
40 CFR 261.7(b)(3); any residue or contaminated soil, water, or other 
debris resulting from the cleanup of a spill into or on any land or 
water of the substance as a commercial chemical product or manufacturing 
chemical intermediate, or any residue or contaminated soil, water, or 
other debris resulting from the cleanup of a spill into or on any land 
or water, of the substance as an off-specification commercial chemical 
product or manufacturing chemical intermediate; and any waste stream 
containing greater than 1.0% of this substance and the substance 
identified in Sec. 721.1230 combined - shall be disposed of as follows: 
Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1),

[[Page 247]]

(b)(1), (c)(1), (a)(2), (b)(2), and (c)(2); the landfill shall be 
operated in accordance with Subtitle C of the Resource Conservation and 
Recovery Act.
    (B) Any forms of the substance other than those described in 
paragraph (a)(2)(iv)(A) of this section, including waste streams 
containing 1.0% or less of this substance and the substance identified 
in Sec. 721.1240, shall be disposed of as follows: Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), (c)(1), (a)(2), (b)(2), (c)(2), (a)(3), (b)(3), (c)(3), carbon 
adsorption followed by either physical destruction, or as specified in 
Sec. 721.90; the landfill shall be operated in accordance with the 
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(2)(iv), (b)(2)(iv), (c)(2)(iv), (a)(2)(v), (b)(2)(v), 
(c)(2)(v),(a)(3), (b)(3), and (c)(3).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[67 FR 17648, Apr. 11, 2002]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1300  [(Dinitrophenyl)azo]-[2,4-dia mino-5-methoxybenzene]
derivatives.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
[(dinitrophenyl)azo]-[2,4-di a mino-5-methoxybenzene] derivatives (P-83-
817 and P-83-818) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (v)(2), (w)(1), (w)(2), (x)(1), and 
(x)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[56 FR 25990, June 5, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1325  Benzene, 1-(1-methyl bu-toxy)-4-nitro-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzene, 1-(1-
methylbutoxy)-4-nitro- (PMN P-90-560) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (l) and (p) (production limit set at 43,000 
kg).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Modifications or revocation of certain notification 
requirements. The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 44062, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1350  Benzene, (1-methylethyl)(2-phenylethyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzene, (1-
methylethyl)(2-phenylethyl)-, (PMN P-88-894) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.

[[Page 248]]

    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3), (b) 
(concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). However, the personal 
protective clothing required in paragraph (a)(2)(iv) must be tested or 
evaluated under the requirements of paragraph (a)(3). Furthermore, the 
imperviousness of gloves required under paragraph (a)(2)(i) may not be 
demonstrated according to paragraph (a)(3)(ii), but rather must be 
tested according to paragraph (a)(3)(i) with the following additional 
requirements: There must be no permeation of the PMN substance greater 
than 16 ppb after 8 hours of testing in accordance with the American 
Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) F739-85 ``Standard Test Method 
for Resistance of Protective Clothing Materials to Permeation by Liquids 
or Gases.'' Gloves may not be used for a time period longer than they 
are actually tested and must be replaced at the end of each work shift.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), 
(g)(4)(i) and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q). In addition, a significant use of the 
substance is any manner or method of manufacturing, processing, or use 
other than as an insulating oil for capacitors or transformers.
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), (c)(1), (a)(2), (b)(2), (c)(2), (a)(3), (b)(3), and (c)(3).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (j).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 40210, Aug. 13, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1372  Substituted nitrobenzene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as a substituted 
nitrobenzene (PMN P-92-1125) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 50 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51682, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1375  Disubstituted nitrobenzene (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance disubstituted nitrobenzene (PMN P-
84-860) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b)(2), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f) 
and (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v). The provisions of Sec. 721.72(d) 
requiring employees to be provided with information on the location and 
availability of a written hazard communication program and MSDSs do not 
apply when the written program and MSDS

[[Page 249]]

are not required under Sec. 721.72 (a) and (c), respectively. The 
provision of Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information 
on an MSDS does not apply when a MSDS in not required under Sec. 
721.72(c).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (c), (e), (f) and 
(i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 32416, Aug. 9, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1425  Pentabromoethylbenzene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance pentabromoethylbenzene (CAS Number 85-22-3) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph:
    (1) Persons who must report. Section 721.5 applies to this section 
except for Sec. 721.5(a)(2). A person who intends to manufacture, 
import, or process for commercial purposes the substance identified in 
paragraph (a)(1) of this section and intends to distribute the substance 
in commerce must submit a significant new use notice.
    (2) [Reserved]

[54 FR 18286, Apr. 28, 1989. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1430  Pentachlorobenzene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance pentachlorobenzene (CAS No. 608-93-5) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Manufacture, import, or processing 
of 10,000 pounds or more per year per facility for any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), and (c).
    (2) [Reserved]

[58 FR 63516, Dec. 1, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1435  1,2,4,5-Tetrachlorobenzene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene (CAS No. 95-94-3) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Manufacture, import, or processing 
of 10,000 pounds or more per year per facility for any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), and (c).
    (2) [Reserved]

[58 FR 63516, Dec. 1, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1440  1,3,5-Trinitrobenzene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance 1,3,5-trinitrobenzene (CAS No. 95-35-4) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

[[Page 250]]

    (2) The significant new use is: Manufacture, import, or processing 
of 10,000 pounds or more per year per facility for any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), and (c).
    (2) [Reserved]

[58 FR 63516, Dec. 1, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1450  1,3-Benzenediamine, 4-(1,1-di methylethyl)-ar-methyl.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The following chemical substance, referred to by its PMN 
number and chemical name, is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section: 
P-85-929; 1,3-Benzenediamine, 4-(l,1-dimethylethyl)-ar-methyl.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Use other than for applications where the substance will be 
completely reacted (cured or used as a chemical intermediate).
    (ii) Any method of disposal other than by landfill, incineration, or 
for wastewater from vent scrubbers, steam vacuum ejectors, pad washings, 
equipment washouts, and stormwater runoffs, wastewater treatment in 
permitted industrial wastewater treatment facilities. Each method of 
disposal must meet all applicable local, State, and Federal laws and 
regulations.
    (iii) Any manner or method of manufacturing, importing, or 
processing without establishing a program whereby:
    (A) Any person who may be exposed dermally to the substance wears:
    (1) Gloves which have been determined to be impervious to the 
substance under the conditions of exposure, including the duration of 
exposure. This determination is made either by testing the gloves under 
the conditions of exposure or by evaluating the specifications provided 
by the manufacturer of the gloves. Testing or evaluation of 
specifications includes consideration of permeability, penetration, and 
potential chemical and mechanical degradation by the substance and 
associated chemical substances.
    (2) Clothing which covers any other exposed areas of the arms, legs, 
and torso.
    (3) Chemical safety goggles or equivalent eye protection.
    (B) Any person who may be exposed to the substance through 
inhalation during manufacture, in addition to the dermal protective 
equipment described in paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(A) of this section, wears 
at a minimum, a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health 
approved, category 23C respirator, organic vapor type. Use of the 
respirator must be according to 29 CFR 1910.134 and 30 CFR part 11. If a 
full-face type respirator is selected and worn, the chemical safety 
goggles requirement in paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(A)(3) of this section is 
waived.
    (C)(1) All persons who may be exposed to the substance are informed, 
in writing, and by presenting the information as part of a training 
program in safety meetings at which attendance is recorded, by means of 
the following statement:

    WARNING: Avoid all contact. Chemicals similar in structure to 
[insert appropriate name] have been found to cause chronic organ and 
systemic effects and cancer in laboratory animals. To protect yourself, 
you must wear chemical safety goggles or equivalent eye protection, 
impervious gloves, and protective clothing while handling this material.

    (2) During manufacture, the warning statement in paragraph 
(a)(2)(iii)(C)(1) of this section shall include the additional following 
statement:

    Respirators are required during clean-up or loading of bulk 
material.

    (D) All persons that receive the PMN substance are notified by means 
of a Material Safety Data Sheet (``MSDS'') which includes, at a minimum, 
the language specified in paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(C)(1) of this section, 
and specifies the requirements for protective equipment in paragraph 
(a)(2)(iii)(A) and (a)(2)(iii)(B) of this section.

[[Page 251]]

    (E) Each container of the substance distributed in commerce has 
affixed to it a label which includes a Warning Statement which consists, 
at a minimum, of the language specified in paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(C)(1) 
of this section. The first word of the Warning Statement is capitalized, 
and the type size of the first word is no smaller than 6-point type for 
a label 5 square inches or less in area, 10-point type for a label above 
5 but no greater than 10 square inches in area, 12-point type for a 
label above 10 but no greater than 15 square inches in area, 14-point 
type for a label above 15 but no greater than 30 square inches in area, 
or 18-point type for a label over 30 square inches in area. The type 
size of the remainder of the Warning Statement is no smaller than 6-
point type. All required label text is of sufficient prominence, and is 
placed with such conspicuousness relative to other label text and 
graphic material, to ensure that the Warning Statement is read and 
understood by the ordinary individual under customary conditions of 
purchase and use.
    (iv) Manufacturing and importing the substance for any use at 
greater than the aggregrate volumes allowed under the consent order 
issued for Premanufacture Notice P-85-929, without submitting to EPA the 
corresponding scientifically valid toxicity test data required under 
that order, developed according to EPA's Good Laboratory Practice 
standards at 40 CFR part 792 and EPA's testing guidelines at 40 CFR 
798.2650 and 798.3300.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Determining whether a use is a significant new use. (i) Any 
person who intends to manufacture or import the substance identified in 
paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall, before commencing any 
manufacture or import, submit to EPA the information required under 
Sec. 721.11(b).
    (ii) EPA will review this information to determine whether the 
person has a bona fide intent to manufacture or import the substance. If 
EPA determines that the person has a bona fide intent to manufacture or 
import the substance, EPA will tell the person the specific production 
volumes which would constitute a significant new use under paragraph 
(a)(2)(iv) of this section.
    (iii) A disclosure to a person with a bona fide intent to 
manufacture or import the substance of the specific production volumes 
which would constitute a significant new use under paragraph (a)(2)(iv) 
of this section will not be considered public disclosure of confidential 
business information under section 14 of the Act.
    (2) Recordkeeping. In addition to the requirements of Sec. 721.40, 
manufacturers, importers, and processors must maintain the following 
records for 5 years after the date they are created:
    (i) Any determination that gloves are impervious to the substance.
    (ii) Names of persons who have attended safety meetings in 
accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(C) of this section, the dates of 
such meetings, and copies of any written information provided in 
accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(C) of this section.
    (iii) Copies of any MSDSs used.
    (iv) Names and addresses of all persons to whom the substance is 
sold or transferred including shipment destination address if different, 
the date of each transfer, and the quantity of substance sold or 
transferred on such date.
    (v) Copies of any labels used.
    (vi) Any names used for the substance and the corresponding dates of 
use.
    (vii) Quantities of the substance manufactured or imported, with the 
corresponding dates of manufacture or import.
    (viii) Quantities of the substance purchased in the United States by 
processors of the substance, names and addresses of suppliers, and 
corresponding dates of purchase.
    (ix) Information on disposal of the substance, including dates waste 
material is disposed of, location of disposal sites, volume of disposed 
solid material, estimated volume of any disposed liquid wastes 
containing the substance, and method of disposal.

[55 FR 20795, May 21, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]

[[Page 252]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1500  1,2-Benzenediamine, 4-ethoxy, sulfate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The following chemical substance referred to by its chemical name is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section: 1,2-benzenediamine, 4-
ethoxy, sulfate, PMN P-83-105.
    (2) The significant new use is: Manufacture, import, or processing 
in powder or dry solid form.
    (b) [Reserved]

(Sec. 5, Pub. L. 94-469, 90 Stat. 2012 (15 U.S.C. 2604))

[49 FR 43061, Oct. 26, 1984. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. 
Further redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 
34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1550  Benzenediazonium, 4-(di methyl amino)-, salt with
2-hy droxy-5-sul fo benzoic acid (1:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzenediazonium, 4-
(dimethylamino)-, salt with 2-hydroxy-5-sulfobenzoic acid (1:1) (CAS No. 
124737-31-1) (P-90-1366) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), 
(a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(5)(vii), 
(a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), 
(g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), and (g)(5). In addition, the following human 
health hazard statement shall appear on each label as specified at Sec. 
721.72(b) and the MSDS as specified at Sec. 721.72(c). Additional 
statements may be included as long as they are true and do not alter the 
meaning of the required statement. Human health hazard statements: This 
substance may cause severe acute toxicity and death or serious 
neurotoxic effects.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (volume set at 31,000 kg).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 80 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance 
as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[56 FR 40211, Aug. 13, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1555  Substituted phenyl azo substituted benzenediazonium salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted phenyl azo substituted benzenediazonium salt (PMN P-92-652) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51682, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1568  Benzenediazonium, 2-(methoxycarbonyl)-, chloride (1:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 253]]

chemical substance identified as benzenediazonium, 2-(methoxycarbonyl)-, 
chloride (1:1) (PMN P-93-533; CAS No. 35358-78-2) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(h).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51682, Oct. 4, 1993, as amended at 79 FR 34636, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1576  1,3-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, bis[[4-[(ethenyloxy)
methyl] cyclohexyl] methyl] ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,3-
benzenedicarboxylic acid, bis[[4-[(ethenyloxy)methyl] cyclohexyl] 
methyl] ester (PMN P-98-1162; CAS No. 119581-93-0) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 367, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1577  1,4-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, bis [4-(ethenyloxy)
butyl] ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,4-
benzenedicarboxylic acid, bis[4-(ethenyloxy) butyl] ester (PMN P-98-
1163; CAS No. 117397-31-6) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 367, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1578  1,4-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, bis[[4-[(ethenyloxy)
methyl] cyclohexyl] methyl] ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,4-
benzenedicarboxylic acid, bis[[4-[(ethenyloxy)methyl] cyclohexyl] 
methyl] ester (PMN P-98-1164; CAS No. 209072-72-0) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.

[[Page 254]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 367, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1579  1,2,4-Benzenetricarboxylic acid, tris [4-(ethenyloxy)
butyl] ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,2,4-
benzenetricarboxylic acid, tris [4-(ethenyloxy) butyl] ester (PMN P-98-
1165; CAS No. 196109-17-8) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 367, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1580  Disubstituted benzene ether, polymer with substituted 
phenol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance generically identified as 
disubstituted benzene ether, polymer with substituted phenol (PMN P-98-
155) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44575, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1612  Substituted 2-nitro- and 2-aminobenzesulfonamide.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
substituted 2-nitro- and 2-aminobenzenesulfonamide (PMNs P-88-1937 and 
P-88-1938) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a) through (d), (f), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and 
(g)(5). The following additional statements shall appear on each label 
and MSDS required by this paragraph: This substance may be toxic to 
terrestrial organisms and plants. Notice to user: Release to water 
restrictions apply.
    (ii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85. A 
significant new use of these substances is any release of the substances 
to land.
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 100 ppb for P-88-1937 and N = 10 
ppb for P-88-1938). When calculating the surface water concentrations 
according to the instructions in Sec. 721.91(a)(4), the statement that 
the amount of the substances that will be released will be calculated 
before the substances enter control technology does not apply. Instead, 
if the waste stream containing the PMN substances will be treated before 
release, the amount of the PMN substances reasonably likely to be 
removed from the waste stream by treatment may be subtracted in 
calculating the number of kilograms released. No more than 50 percent 
removal efficiency may be attributed to such treatment.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 255]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (j), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[59 FR 27482, May 27, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1620  Benzenesulfonamide, alkylphenyl substituted phenyl
substituted carbonyl- (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
benzenesulfonamide alkylphenyl substituted phenyl substituted carbonyl- 
(PMN P-00-368) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), 
(a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0%), and (c). As an 
alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, 
importer, or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure 
limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order 
for this chemical substance.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721,72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0%), (f), 
(g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 30).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70174, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1625  Benzenesulfonic acid, dodecyl-, branched, compds.
with N,N-dimethyl-1,3-propanediamine (2:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzenesulfonic 
acid, dodecyl-, branched, compds. with N,N-dimethyl-1,3-propanediamine 
(2:1) (PMN P-90-456; CAS No. 319926-68-6) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[56 FR 19242, Apr. 25, 1991; 56 FR 29903, July 1, 1991. Redesignated at 
58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 79 
FR 34636, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1630  1,2-Ethanediol bis(4-methylbenzenesulfonate); 
2,2-oxybis-ethane bis(4-methylbenzenesulfonate); ethanol, 2,2'
-[oxybis(2,1-ethanediyl oxy)]bis-, bis(4-methylbenzenesulfonate); 
ethanol, 2,2'-[oxybis (2,1-ethane diyloxy)] bis-, bis
(4-methylbenzenesulfonate); ethanol,2,2'-[[1-[(2-propenyloxy)
methyl]-1,2-ethanediyl]bis(oxy)]bis-, bis(4-methylbenzene 
sulfonate); and ethanol, 2-[1-[[2-[2-[[(4-methylphenyl)
sulfonyl] oxy]ethoxy]ethoxy]methyl]-2-(2-propenyloxy)ethoxy]-
, 4-methylbenzenesulfonate.
          

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances 1,2-ethanediol bis(4-
methylbenzenesulfonate) (PMN P-93-1193, CAS no. 6315-52-2), 2,2-oxybis-
ethane bis(4-methylbenzenesulfonate) (PMN P-93-1194, CAS no. 7460-82-4), 
ethanol, 2,2'-[oxybis(2,1-ethanediyloxy)]bis-, bis(4-

[[Page 256]]

methylbenzene-sulfonate) (PMN P-93-1195, CAS no. 19249-03-7), ethanol, 
2,2'-[oxybis(2,1-ethanediyloxy)] bis-, bis(4-methylbenzene sulfonate) 
(PMN P-93-1196, CAS no. 37860-51-8), ethanol, 2,2'-[[1-[(2-propenyloxy) 
methyl]-1,2-ethanediyl]bis(oxy)]bis-, bis(4-methylbenzene sulfonate) 
(PMN P-93-1203, CAS no. 114719-15-2), and ethanol, 2-[1-[[2-[2- [[(4-
methylphenyl) sulfonyl] oxy]ethoxy] ethoxy]methyl]-2-(2-
propenyloxy)ethoxy]-, 4-methylbenzenesulfonate (PMN P-93-1204, CAS no. 
124029-00-1) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[59 FR 27482, May 27, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1637  1,2-Propanediol, 3-(2-propenyloxy)-, bis(4-methylbenzene
sulfonate); 2-propanol, 1-[2-[[(4-methylphenyl)sulfonyl] oxy]ethoxy]-3
-(2-propenyloxy)-4-methylbenzenesulfonate; and 2-propanol, 1-[2-[2-[[(4-
methylphenyl)sulfonyl]oxy] ethoxy]ethoxy]-3-(2-propenyloxy)-,
4-methylbenzenesulfonate
          .

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances 1,2-propanediol, 3-(2-
propenyloxy)-, bis(4-methylbenzenesulfonate) (PMN P-93-1198, CAS no. 
114719-19-6), 2-propanol, 1-[2-[[(4-methylphenyl)sulfonyl]oxy]ethoxy]-3-
(2-propenyloxy)-4-methylbenzenesulfonate (PMN P-93-1199, CAS no. 124213-
39-4), and 2-propanol, 1-[2-[2-[[(4-methylphenyl)sulfonyl]oxy] 
ethoxy]ethoxy]-3-(2-propenyloxy)-, 4-methylbenzenesulfonate (PMN P-93-
1200, CAS no. 124028-99-5) are subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[59 FR 27482, May 27, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1640  3,6,9,12,-Tetraoxatetradecane-1,14-diol, bis(4-methyl
benzenesulfonate; 3,6,9,13-tetraoxahexadec-15-ene-1,11-diol, bis
(4-methylbenzenesulfonate);3,6,9,12,16-pentaoxanonadec-18-ene-1,
14-diol, bis(4-methylbenzenesulfonate); and 3,6,9,12-tetraoxatetradecane
-1,14-diol, 7-[(2-propenyloxy)methyl]-, bis(4-methylbenzenesulfonate).
          

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances 3,6,9,12-tetraoxatetradecane-
1,14-diol, bis(4-methylbenzenesulfonate (PMN P-93-1197, CAS no. 41024-
91-3), 3,6,9,13-tetraoxahexadec-15-ene-1,11-diol, bis(4-
methylbenzenesulfonate) (PMN P-93-1201), 3,6,9,12,16-pentaoxanonadec-18-
ene-1,14-diol, bis(4-methyl benzenesulfonate) (PMN P-93-1202), and 
3,6,9,12-tetraoxatetradecane-1,14-diol, 7-[(2-propenyloxy)methyl]-, 
bis(4-methylbenzenesulfonate) (PMN P-93-1205) are subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 257]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[59 FR 27483, May 27, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1643  Benzenesulfonic acid, amino substituted phenylazo-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
benzenesulfonic acid, amino substituted phenylazo- (PMN P-95-86) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(w)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 45081, Aug. 30, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1645  Benzenesulfonic acid, 4-methyl-, reaction products with
oxirane mono[(CC [bdi1][bdi0]-[bdi1][bdi6]-alkyloxy)methyl] derivatives
and 2,2,4(or 2,4,4)-trimethyl-1,6-hexanediamine.
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance benzenesulfonic acid, 4-methyl-, 
reaction products with oxirane mono[(C<INF>10-16</INF>-alkyloxy)methyl] 
derivatives and 2,2,4(or 2,4,4)-trimethyl-1,6-hexanediamine (PMN P-93-
1047, CAS no. 147170-38-5) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[59 FR 27483, May 27, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1648  Substituted benzenesulfonic acid salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted benzenesulfonic acid (PMN P-99-1304) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[68 FR 70175, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1650  Alkylbenzenesulfonic acid and sodium salts.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as alkyl 
benzenesulfonic acid and sodium salts (PMNs P-88-1783, P-88-

[[Page 258]]

2231, P-88-2237, and P-88-2530) are subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the employer 
must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods 
for protecting against such risk, into an MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the 
new information. If this substance is not being manufactured, imported, 
processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add 
the new information to an MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into 
the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive this 
substance from the employer are provided an MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44062, Sept. 23, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1655  Alkylbenzenesulfonic acid (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkylbenzenesulfonic acid (PMN P-98-679) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 367, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1660  Benzidine-based chemical substances.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The benzidine-based chemical substances listed in Table 1 
and Table 2 of this section are subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.

                                  Table 1--Benzidine-Based Chemical Substances
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     CAS or accession No.          C.I. name         C.I. No.                      Chemical name
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
117-33-9.....................  Not available...  Not available..  1,3-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 7-hydroxy-8-[2-
                                                                   [4'-[2-(4-hydroxyphenyl)diazenyl][1,1'-
                                                                   biphenyl]-4-yl]diazenyl]-
65150-87-0...................  Not available...  Not available..  1,3,6-Naphthalenetrisulfonic acid, 8-hydroxy-7-
                                                                   [2-[4'-[2-(2-hydroxy-1-
                                                                   naphthalenyl)diazenyl][1,1'- biphenyl]-4-
                                                                   yl]diazenyl]-, lithium salt (1:3)

[[Page 259]]

 
68214-82-4...................  Direct Navy BH..  22590..........  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 5-amino-3-[2-
                                                                   [4'-[2-(7-amino-1-hydroxy-3-sulfo-2-
                                                                   naphthalenyl)diazenyl][1,1'-biphenyl]-4-
                                                                   yl]diazenyl]-4-hydroxy-, sodium salt (1:2)
72379-45-4...................  Not available...  Not available..  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-amino-5-
                                                                  hydroxy-3-[2-[4'-[2-[2-hydroxy-4-[(2-
                                                                   methylphenyl)amino]phenyl]diazenyl][1,1'-
                                                                   biphenyl]-4-yl]diazenyl]-6-(2-phenyldiazenyl)-
 
Accession No. 21808..........  CBI.............  CBI............  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-amino-5-
CAS No. CBI (NA).............                                     hydroxy [[[(substituted phenylamino)]
                                                                   substituted phenylazo] diphenyl]azo-,
                                                                   phenylazo-, disodium salt. (generic name)
Accession No. 24921..........  CBI.............  CBI............  4-(Substituted naphthalenyl )azo diphenylyl
CAS No.......................                                      azo-substituted carbopolycycle azo
                                                                   benzenesulfonic acid, sodium salt. (generic
                                                                   name)
Accession No. 26256..........  CBI.............  CBI............  4-(Substituted phenyl)azo biphenylyl azo-
CAS No. CBI (NA).............                                     substituted carbopolycycloazo benzenesulfonic
                                                                   acid, sodium salt. (generic name)
Accession No. 26267..........  CBI.............  CBI............  4-(Substituted phenyl)azo biphenylyl azo -
CAS No. CBI (NA).............                                     substituted carbopolycycle azo benzenesulfonic
                                                                   acid, sodium salt. (generic name)
Accession No. 26701..........  CBI.............  CBI............  Phenylazoaminohydroxynaphthalenylazobiphenylaz
CAS No. CBI (NA).............                                      o substituted benzene sodium sulfonate.
                                                                   (generic name).
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                  Table 2--Benzidine-Based Chemical Substances
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             CAS No.                     C.I. name             C.I. No.                  Chemical name
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
92-87-5..........................  Benzidine...........  Not available.......  [1,1'-Biphenyl]-4,4'-diamine.
531-85-1.........................  Benzidine [middot]    Not available.......  [1,1'-Biphenyl]-4,4'-diamine,
                                    2HCl.                                       dihydrochloride.
573-58-0.........................  C.I. Direct Red 28..  22120...............  1- Naphthalenesulfonic acid, 3,3'-
                                                                                [[1,1'-biphenyl]-4,4'-
                                                                                diylbis(azo)]bis[4-amino-,
                                                                                disodium salt.
1937-37-7........................  C.I. Direct Black 38  30235...............  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-
                                                                                amino-3-[[4'-[(2,4-
                                                                                diaminophenyl) azo][1,1'-
                                                                                biphenyl]-4- yl]azo]-5-hydroxy-6-
                                                                                (phenylazo)-, disodium salt.
2302-97-8........................  C.I. Direct Red 44..  22500...............  1-Naphthalenesulfonic acid, 8,8'-
                                                                                [[1,1'-biphenyl]-4,4'-
                                                                                diylbis(azo)]bis[7-hydroxy-,
                                                                                disodium salt.
2429-73-4........................  C.I. Direct Blue 2..  22590...............  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 5-
                                                                                amino-3-[[4'-[(7-amino-1-hydroxy-
                                                                                3-sulfo-2-naphthalenyl)azo][1,1'-
                                                                                biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-4-hydroxy-,
                                                                                trisodium salt.
2429-79-0........................  C.I. Direct Orange 8  22130...............  Benzoic acid, 5-[[4'-[(1-amino-4-
                                                                                sulfo-2-naphthalenyl) azo][1,1'-
                                                                                biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-2- hydroxy-,
                                                                                disodium salt.
2429-81-4........................  C.I. Direct Brown 31  35660...............  Benzoic acid, 5-[[4'-[[2,6-
                                                                                diamino-3-[[8-hydroxy-3,6-
                                                                                disulfo-7-[(4-sulfo-1-
                                                                                naphthalenyl)azo]-2-
                                                                                naphthalenyl]azo]-5-
                                                                                methylphenyl]azo][1,1'-
                                                                                biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-2-hydroxy-,
                                                                                tetrasodium salt.
2429-82-5........................  C.I. Direct Brown 2.  22311...............  Benzoic acid, 5-[[4'-[(7-amino-1-
                                                                                hydroxy-3-sulfo-2-naphthalenyl)
                                                                                azo][1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-2-
                                                                                hydroxy-, disodium salt.
2429-83-6........................  Direct Black 4......  30245...............  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-
                                                                                amino-3-[[4'-[(2,4-diamino-5-
                                                                                methylphenyl)azo][1,1'-biphenyl]-
                                                                                4-yl]azo] -5-hydroxy-6-
                                                                                (phenylazo)-, disodium salt.
2429-84-7........................  C.I. Direct Red 1...  22310...............  Benzoic acid, 5-[[4'-[(2-amino-8-
                                                                                hydroxy-6-sulfo-1-
                                                                                naphthalenyl)azo][1,1'-biphenyl]-
                                                                                4-yl]azo]-2-hydroxy-, disodium
                                                                                salt.
2586-58-5........................  C.I. Direct Brown     30110...............  Benzoic acid, 5-[[4'-[[2,6-
                                    1:2.                                        diamino-3-methyl-5-[(4-
                                                                                sulfophenyl)azo]phenyl]azo][1,1'-
                                                                                biphenyl]-4- yl]azo]-2-hydroxy-,
                                                                                disodium salt.
2602-46-2........................  C.I. Direct Blue 6..  22610...............  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid,
                                                                                3,3'-[[1,1'-biphenyl]-4,4'-
                                                                                diylbis(azo)]bis[5-amino-4-
                                                                                hydroxy-, tetrasodium salt.
2893-80-3........................  C.I. Direct Brown 6.  30140...............  Benzoic acid, 5-[[4'-[[2,4-
                                                                                dihydroxy-3-[(4-sulfophenyl)
                                                                                azo]phenyl]azo][1,1'-biphenyl]-4-
                                                                                 yl]azo]-2-hydroxy-, disodium
                                                                                salt.
3530-19-6........................  C.I. Direct Red 37..  22240...............  1,3-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 8-
                                                                                [[4'-[(4-ethoxyphenyl)azo][1,1'-
                                                                                biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-7-hydroxy-,
                                                                                disodium salt
3567-65-5........................  C.I. Acid Red 85....  22245...............  1,3-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 7-
                                                                                hydroxy-8-[[4'-[[4-[[(4-
                                                                                methylphenyl)sulfonyl]oxy]phenyl
                                                                                ]azo][1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-,
                                                                                disodium salt.
3626-28-6........................  C.I. Direct Green 1.  30280...............  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-
                                                                                amino-5-hydroxy-3-[[4'-[(4-
                                                                                hydroxyphenyl)azo][1,1'-
                                                                                biphenyl]-4- yl]azo]-6-
                                                                                (phenylazo)-, disodium salt.

[[Page 260]]

 
3811-71-0........................  C.I. Direct Brown 1.  30045...............  Benzoic acid, 5-[[4'-[[2,4-
                                                                                diamino-5-[(4-sulfophenyl)
                                                                                azo]phenyl]azo][1,1' biphenyl]-4-
                                                                                 yl]azo]-2-hydroxy-, disodium
                                                                                salt.
4335-09-5........................  C.I. Direct Green 6.  30295...............  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-
                                                                                amino-5-hydroxy-6-[[4'-[(4-
                                                                                hydroxyphenyl)azo][1,1'-
                                                                                biphenyl]-4- yl]azo]-3-[(4-
                                                                                nitrophenyl)azo]-, disodium
                                                                                salt.
6358-80-1........................  C.I. Acid Black 94..  30336...............  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-
                                                                                amino-5-hydroxy-3-[[4'-[[4-
                                                                                hydroxy-2-[(2-
                                                                                methylphenyl)amino]phenyl]azo]
                                                                                [1,1'- biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-6-[(4-
                                                                                sulfophenyl) azo]-, trisodium
                                                                                salt.
6360-29-8........................  C.I. Direct Brown 27  31725...............  Benzoic acid, 5-[[4'-[[4-[(4-
                                                                                amino-7-sulfo-1-
                                                                                naphthalenyl)azo]-6-sulfo-1-
                                                                                naphthalenyl]azo][1,1'-biphenyl]-
                                                                                4-yl] azo]-2- hydroxy-,
                                                                                trisodium salt.
6360-54-9........................  C.I. Direct Brown     30120...............  Benzoic acid, 5-[[4'-[[2,6-
                                    154.                                        diamino-3-methyl-5-[(4-
                                                                                sulfophenyl)azo]phenyl]
                                                                                azo][1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-2-
                                                                                hydroxy-3-methyl-, disodium
                                                                                salt.
8014-91-3........................  C.I. Direct Brown 74  36300...............  Benzoic acid, 3,3'-[(3,7-disulfo-
                                                                                1,5-naphthalenediyl)bis [azo(6-
                                                                                hydroxy-3,1-phenylene)azo[6(or7)-
                                                                                sulfo-4,1-
                                                                                naphthalenediyl]azo[1,1'-
                                                                                biphenyl]-4,4'-diylazo]]bis[6-
                                                                                hydroxy-, hexasodium salt.
16071-86-6.......................  C.I. Direct Brown 95  30145...............  Cuprate(2-), [5-[[4'-[[2,6-
                                                                                dihydroxy-3-[(2-hydroxy-5-
                                                                                sulfophenyl)azo]phenyl]
                                                                                azo][1,1'- biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-2-
                                                                                hydroxybenzoato(4-)]-, disodium
                                                                                salt.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) For each of the chemical substances listed in Table 2 of this 
section, any use other than use as a reagent to test for hydrogen 
peroxide in milk; a reagent to test for hydrogen sulfate, hydrogen 
cyanide, and nicotine; a stain in microscopy; a reagent for detecting 
blood; an analytical standard; and, additionally for Colour Index (C.I.) 
Direct Red 28 (Congo Red) (CAS No. 573-58-0), an indicator dye.
    (ii) For the chemical substances listed in Table 1 of this section: 
Any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Revocation of certain notification exemptions. The provisions of 
Sec. 721.45(f) do not apply to this section. A person who imports or 
processes a chemical substance identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this 
section as part of an article for a significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section is not exempt from submitting a 
significant new use notice.
    (2) [Reserved]

[79 FR 77909, Dec. 29, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1675  Disulfonic acid rosin amine salt of a benzidine 
derivative (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
disulfonic acid rosin amine salt of a benzidine derivative (PMN P-87-
1337) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and con sumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 33304, Aug. 15, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1680  Substituted benzoic acid (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted benzoic acid (PMN

[[Page 261]]

P-01-423) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70175, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1700  Halonitrobenzoic acid, substituted (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance halonitrobenzoic acid, substituted 
(PMN P-86-1098) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv) through (a)(5)(vii), 
(a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f) 
and (g)(1)(vi), (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). The provision 
of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring that employees to be provided with 
information on the location and availability of a written hazard 
communication program does not apply when the written program is not 
required under Sec. 721.72(a).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (c), (e) through 
(g) and (j).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 32416, Aug. 9, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1705  Benzoic acid, 3-amino-, diazotized, coupled with
6-amino-4-hydroxy-2-naphthalenesulfonic acid, diazotized, 
(3-aminophenyl)phosphonic acid and diazotized 2,5-diethoxybenzenamine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance generically identified as benzoic 
acid, 3-amino-, diazotized, coupled with 6-amino-4-hydroxy-2-
naphthalenesulfonic acid, diazotized, (3-amino-phenyl)phosphonic acid 
and diazotized 2,5-diethoxybenzenamine (PMN P-96-1216; CAS No. 163879-
69-4) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3423, Jan. 22, 1998]

[[Page 262]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1725  Benzoic acid, 3,3'-methyl enebis [6 amino-, 
di-2-propenyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The following chemical substance, referred to by its CAS 
Number and chemical name, is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section: 
61386-02-5, Benzoic acid, 3,3'-methylenebis [6 amino-, di-2-propenyl 
ester.
    (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Any use other than the use 
described in Premanufacture Notice P-82-438.
    (ii) Any manner or method of manufacturing or processing the 
substance for the use described in Pre man u fac ture Notice P-82-438 
different than the manner or method described in Premanufacture Notice 
P-82-438.
    (b) Special provisions. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this rule. (i) 
A person who intends to manufacture, import, or process the chemical 
substance identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may ask EPA 
whether the use for which the person intends to manufacture, import, or 
process the substance is a significant new use under paragraph (a)(2)(i) 
of this section. EPA will answer such an inquiry only if EPA determines 
that the person has a bona fide intent to manufacture, import, or 
process the chemical substance.
    (ii) To establish a bona fide intent to manufacture, import, or 
process the chemical substance, the person must submit to EPA:
    (A) All materials and statements required under Sec. 721.6.
    (B) The specific use for which the person intends to manufacture, 
import, or process the chemical substance.
    (iii) EPA will review the information submitted by the person under 
this paragraph to determine whether the person has a bona fide intent to 
manufacture, import, or process the chemical substance.
    (iv) If EPA determines that the person has a bona fide intent to 
manufacture, import, or process the chemical substance, EPA will tell 
the person whether the use for which the person intends to manufacture, 
import, or process the substance is a significant new use under 
paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section. If EPA tells the person that the 
intended use is not a significant new use under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section, EPA will tell the person what activities would constitute 
a significant new use under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.
    (v) A disclosure to a person with a bona fide intent to manufacture, 
import, or process the chemical substance of the significant new uses 
subject to this section will not be considered public disclosure of 
confidential business information under section 14 of the Act.
    (vi) EPA will answer an inquiry on whether a particular use is 
subject to this section within 30 days after receipt of a complete 
submission under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
    (2) [Reserved]

[51 FR 16687, May 6, 1986. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. 
Further redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 
34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1728  Benzoic acid, 2-(3-phenylbutylidene)amino-,methyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzoic acid, 2-(3-
phenylbutylidene)amino-, methyl ester (PMN P-85-1211) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (10,600 kg).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51682, Oct. 4, 1993]

[[Page 263]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1729  Boric acid (H [bdi3]BO [bdi3]), mixed esters with 
polyethylene glycol mono-Bu ether and polyethylene glycol mono
Me ether.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as boric acid 
(H<INF>3</INF>BO<INF>3</INF>), mixed esters with polyethylene glycol 
mono-Bu ether and polyethylene glycol mono Me ether (PMN P-97-635; CAS 
No. 183290-62-2) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(2)(i) and (a)(3).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 300).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 368, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1730  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), [alpha]-butyl-[omega]-
hydroxy, ester with boric acid (H [bdi3]BO [bdi3]).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as poly(oxy-1,2-
ethanediyl), [alpha]-butyl-[omega]-hydroxy, ester with boric acid 
(H<INF>3</INF>BO<INF>3</INF>) (PMN P-97-636; CAS No. 106008-93-9) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(2)(i) and (a)(3).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 300).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 368, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1731  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), [alpha]-methyl-[omega]-
hydroxy, ester with boric acid (H [bdi3]BO [bdi3]).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as poly(oxy-1,2-
ethanediyl), [alpha]-methyl-[omega]-hydroxy, ester with boric acid 
(H<INF>3</INF>BO<INF>3</INF>) (PMN P-97-637; CAS No. 106008-94-0) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(2)(i) and (a)(3).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 300).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 368, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1732  Nitrobenzoic acid octyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as nitrobenzoic acid 
octyl ester (PMN P-93-343) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 1 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]

[[Page 264]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51682, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1734  Substituted benzonitrile (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted benzonitrile (PMN P-97-1029) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), and 
(a)(6)(v).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44576, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1735  Alkylbisoxyalkyl (sub sti tut ed-1,1-dimethylethylphenyl)
ben zo tria zole (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance alkylbisoxyalkyl (substituted-1,1-
dimethylethylphenyl) benzotriazole (PMN P-86-1771) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv) through (a)(5)(vii), 
(a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f) and (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). The 
provision of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring that employees be provided with 
information on the location and availability of a written hazard 
communication program does not apply when the written program is not 
required under Sec. 721.72(a).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (k) (light stabilizer for polymers) and 
(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (c), (e) through 
(g), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 21413, Aug. 9, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 
24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1738  Substituted benzotriazole (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted benzotriazole (PMN P-94-1744) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iv),

[[Page 265]]

(a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0%), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0%), (f), 
(g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), 
(g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[61 FR 63736, Dec. 2, 1996]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1745  Ethoxybenzothiazole disulfide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance generically identified as 
ethoxybenzothiazole disulfide (PMN P-90-1384) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(i) through (vii), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration 
set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (d) and (f) through (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 44063, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1747  Substituted benzophenone (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted benzophenone (PMN P-02-262) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirement as specified Sec. 721.90(b)(1) 
and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70175, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1750  1H-Benzotriazole, 5-(pen tyl oxy)- and 1H-ben zo tri
a zole, 5-(pen tyl oxy)-, sodium and potassium salts.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances 1H-benzotriazole, 5-(pen tyl 
oxy)- (PMN P-92-34, CAS no. 133145-29-6), 1H-ben zo tri a zole, 5-(pen 
tyl oxy)-, sodium salt (PMN P-92-35), and 1H-benzotriazole, 5-
(pentyloxy)- , potassium salt (PMN P-92-36) are subject to reporting for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of these 
substances is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of these substances without providing risk 
notification as follows:

[[Page 266]]

    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for these substances, the employer becomes aware that 
these substances may present a risk of injury to the environment, the 
employer must incorporate this new information, and any information on 
methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as described in 
Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware 
of the new information. If these substances are not being manufactured, 
imported, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer 
must add the new information to an MSDS before the substances are 
reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive, or who 
have received these substances from the employer within 5 years from the 
date the employer becomes aware of the new information described in 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, are provided an MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing the information required under 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the 
employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (limit set at 9,500 kg).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance. The following recordkeeping requirements 
are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of these 
substances, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (c), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 32237, June 8, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1755  Methylenebisbenzotriazole.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance methylenebisbenzotriazole (P-93-
578) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. During both manufacture and use of 
the substance, requirements as specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(4), 
(a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent) and (c). During 
manufacture of the PMN substance Sec. 721.63(a)(5)(i); during use of 
the PMN substance Sec. 721.63 (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), 
(a)(5)(vi), and (a)(5)(vii).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (l) and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements specified 
in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[60 FR 11041, Mar. 1, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1760  Substituted benzotriazole derivatives.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
substituted benzotriazole derivatives (PMNs P-93-374 and P-93-375) are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), and 
(g)(5).

[[Page 267]]

    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (g), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements specified 
in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of these 
substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 11041, Mar. 1, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1765  2-Substituted benzotriazole.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 2-
substituted benzotriazole (PMN P-90-335) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), 
(a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(viii), 
(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (l) and (q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), (c)(4), (where N = 80). However, contrary to Sec. 
721.91(a)(4), if the waste stream containing the PMN substance will be 
treated using biological treatment (activated sludge or equivalent) plus 
clarification, then the amount of PMN substance reasonably likely to be 
removed from the waste stream by such treatment may be subtracted in 
calculating the number of kilograms released. No more than 75 percent 
removal efficiency may be attributed to such treatment.
    (b) Special requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 19235, Apr. 25, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 60 FR 30468, June 9, 1995; 63 
FR 45955, Aug. 28, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1767  Substituted 6,6'-(1-methylethylidene)bis[3,4-dihydro-
3-phenyl-1,3-benzoxazine] (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted 6,6'-(1-methylethylidene)bis[3,4-dihydro-3-phenyl-1,3-
benzoxazine] (PMN P-00-0993) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15081, Mar. 28, 2003]

[[Page 268]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1775  6-Nitro-2(3H)-benzo xazo lone.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance 6-nitro-2(3H)-benzoxazolone (PMN 
P-84-963) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), and (g)(2)(v). The provisions of 
Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information on a label 
and MSDS do not apply when a label and MSDS are not required under Sec. 
721.72 (b) and (c), respectively.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), (x)(1), and (y)(2).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (d), (e), (f), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[55 FR 26100, June 26, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1790  Polybrominated biphenyls.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as 1,1'-(Biphenyl, 
4,4'-dibromo- (CAS No. 92-86-4); 1,1'-(Biphenyl, 2-bromo- (CAS No. 2052-
07-5); 1,1'-(Biphenyl, 3-bromo- (CAS No. 2113-57-7); 1,1'-(Biphenyl, 
2,2', 3,3', 4,4', 5,5', 6,6'-decabromo- (CAS No. 13654-09-6); 
Nonabromobiphenyl (CAS No. 27753-52-2); Octabromobiphenyl (CAS No. 
27858-07-7); and Hexabromobiphenyl (CAS No. 36355-01-8) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.
    (i) The significant new use is: Any use.
    (ii) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (A) Persons who must report. Section 721.5 applies to this section 
except for Sec. 721.5(a)(2). A person who intends to manufacture, 
import, or process for commercial purposes a substance identified in 
paragraph (a)(1) of this section and intends to distribute the substance 
in commerce must submit a significant new use notice.
    (B) [Reserved]
    (2) The chemical substance identified as 1,1'-(Biphenyl, 4-bromo- 
(CAS No. 92-66-0) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.
    (i) The significant new uses are:
    (A) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activites. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (j), and (s) (10,000 kilograms).
    (B) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (A) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (B) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (C) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.
    (b) [Reserved]

[63 FR 45955, Aug. 28, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1800  3,3',5,5'-Tetra methyl bi phenyl-4,4'-diol.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 3,3',5,5'-
tetramethylbiphenyl-4,4'-diol

[[Page 269]]

(PMN P-88-972) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), (b) 
(concentration set at 1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (k) (monomer for epoxy resins and 
engineering plastics or an antioxidizing agent for lubricating oils) and 
(p) (level set at 42,000 kg and 366,000 kg).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (j).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[55 FR 33308, Aug. 15, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1805  Substituted bisaniline.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted bisaniline (PMN P-96-1410) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 4).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3423, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1820  Bisphenol derivative.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
bisphenol derivative (PMN No. P-92-509) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), 
(b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1) (systemic effects--depression in body weight gain and blood 
effects), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv) (when in dust or mist 
form), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (d), and (f) through (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 32237, June 8, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993]

[[Page 270]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1825  Bisphenol A, epichloro hy drin, polyalkylenepolyol 
and poly iso cyanato derivative.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
bisphenol A, epichlorohydrin, polyalkylenepolyol and polyisocyanato 
derivative (PMN P-89-750) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(viii), (a)(5)(ix), (a)(6)(ii), 
(a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f) and (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(v), 
(g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (l) and (q) (The production limit applies 
to the aggregate production volume of both P-89-750 and P-89-760. P-89-
760 is the preferred substance for use in performing these tests. 
Results from such testing can be used to evaluate the toxicity of P-89-
750 as well).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (b)(1), 
(b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2).
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(2)(ii) (Oil and grease separation may be used as an alternative 
treatment), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), 
(g), (h), (i), (j), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 46772, Nov. 6, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 
24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1850  Toluene sulfonamide bis phe nol A epoxy adduct.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as toluene 
sulfonamide bisphenol A epoxy adduct (PMN P-90-113) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows. (A) If, as a result of the test data required 
under the section 5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer 
becomes aware that this substance may present a risk of injury to human 
health, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a Material 
Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days 
from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If this 
substance is not being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the 
employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to an 
MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who have received, or will 
receive, this substance from the employer are provided an MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing the information required under 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the 
employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 271]]

    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. The following recordkeeping 
requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors 
of this substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (c), (h), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 15791, Apr. 17, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1852  Di-alkyl borane (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as di-alkyl 
borane (PMN P-00-1087) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 200 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15081, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1875  Boric acid, alkyl and substituted alkyl esters (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance boric acid, alkyl and substituted 
alkyl esters (PMN P-86-1252) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1) and (a)(3), (b) [concentration set at 0.1 percent], and 
(c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (d), (e) [concentration set at 0.1 percent], (f), and 
(g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(viii), and (g)(1)(ix), 
(g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(v), (g)(4)(i) and (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5). The 
provisions of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring employees to be provided with 
information on the location and availability of a written hazard 
communication program and MSDSs do not apply when the written program 
and MSDS are not required under Sec. 721.72 (a) and (c), respectively. 
The provision of Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific 
information on a MSDS does not apply when a MSDS was not required under 
Sec. 721.72(c).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1) and 
(b)(1).
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(3), (b)(3), and (c)(3).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 26108, June 26, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1878  Alkali metal alkyl borohydride (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkali 
metal alkyl borohydride (PMN P-00-1089) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 272]]

    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15082, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1880  Borate(1-), tris(acetato-.kappa.O)hydro-, sodium,
(T-4)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as borate(1-), 
tris(acetato-.kappa.O)hydro-, sodium, (T-4)- (PMN P-00-0922; CAS No. 
56553-60-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 300 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15082, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1900  Substituted bromothiophene.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted bromothiophene (P-83-769) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), 
(a)(5)(v), and (a)(6)(i).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b)(1)(i)(D) and (g)(2)(iv). The provision of Sec. 
721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information in an MSDS does 
not apply when an MSDS is not required under Sec. 721.72(c).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), and (g).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[56 FR 25990, June 5, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1907  Butanamide, 2,2'-[3'dichloro[1,1'-biphenyl]-4,4'-diyl)
bisazobis N-2,3-dihydro-2-oxo-1H-benximdazol-5-yl)-3-oxo-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance generically identified as 
butanamide, 2,2'-[3'dichloro[1,1'-biphenyl]-4,4'-diyl)bisazobis N-2,3-
dihydro-2-oxo-1H-benximdazol-5-yl)-3-oxo- (PMN P-93-1111) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5). The following additional 
statements shall appear on each label and Material Safety Data Sheet 
(MSDS) as specified by this paragraph: This substance decomposes in 
polymers or sheet metal coatings at temperatures greater than 280 [deg]C 
to give 3,3' DCB a suspect human carcinogen.

[[Page 273]]

    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(f) and processing or use at temperatures 
above 280 [deg]C.
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(b)(1) and (c)(1). When the substance is processed or used as a colorant 
for dyeing plastics, this section does not apply.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 5742, Feb. 4, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1920  1,4-Bis(3-hydroxy-4-benzoylphenoxy)butane.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,4-bis(3-hydroxy-4-
benzoylphenoxy)butane (PMN P-93-483) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 1 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51683, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1925  Substituted carboheterocyclic butane tetracarboxylate
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted carboheterocyclic butane tetracarboxylate (PMNs P-90-440 and 
P-95-4) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements 
of this section do not apply when particle sizes of the chemical 
substance is greater than 250 microns.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), 
(a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(i), 
(g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, and specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[56 FR 19242, Apr. 25, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 67 FR 12885, Mar. 20, 
2002]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1930  Butanoic acid, antimony (3=) salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as butanoic acid, 
antimony (3=) salt (PMN P-94-1143; CAS No. 53856-17-0) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1

[[Page 274]]

percent), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), 
(g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). The label and MSDS as required by this paragraph 
shall also include the following statement: This substance may cause 
neurologic effects. This substance may cause cardiovascular effects. 
This substance may cause ocular irritation.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (675,000 kg).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3423, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.1950  2-Butenedioic acid (Z), mono(2-((1-oxopropenyloxy)
ethyl) ester .

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-butenedioic acid 
(Z), mono(2-((1-oxopropenyloxy)ethyl) ester (PMN P-85-543) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(xi), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), 
(a)(6)(iv), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f) (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), 
(g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v) and (g)(5). The provision of Sec. 721.72(d) 
requiring that employees to be provided with information on the location 
and availability of a written hazard communication program does not 
apply when the written program is not required under Sec. 721.72(a).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(l).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. The following recordkeeping 
requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors 
of this substance: Sec. 721.125 (a) through (j).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 44063, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2025  Substituted phenylimino carbamate derivative.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted phenylimino carbamate derivative (PMN P-91-487) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 46464, Oct. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2060  Disubstituted benzenedicarboxylic acid (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
disubstituted benzenedicarboxylic acid (PMN P-01-77)

[[Page 275]]

is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90(a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70175, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2075  Carbamodithioic acid, methyl-, compound with 
methanamine (1:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
carbamodithioic acid, methyl-, compound with methanamine (1:1) (P-84-
1042), is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b)(2), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(vi), and (g)(2)(i). The provision of Sec. 
721.72(d) requiring that employees be provided with information on the 
location and availability of MSDSs does not apply when an MSDS is not 
required under Sec. 721.72(c). The provision of Sec. 721.72(g) 
requiring placement of specific information in an MSDS does not apply 
when an MSDS is not required under Sec. 721.72(c).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 720.80(k).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(2), 
(b)(2), and (c)(2).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (g), (i), and (j).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 25990, June 5, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 
24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2076  D-Glucuronic acid, polymer with 6-deoxy-L-mannose 
and D-glucose, acetate, calcium magnesium potassium sodium salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as D-Glucuronic acid, 
polymer with 6-deoxy-L-mannose and D-glucose, acetate, calcium magnesium 
potassium sodium salt (PMN P-00-7; SNUN S-05-1; SNUN S-06-4; SNUN S-07-
03; and SNUN S-07-5; CAS No. 125005-87-0) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. The significant new use is any use other than 
manufacture of the substance where greater than 5 percent of the 
chemical substance consists of particle sizes below 10 microns.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.

[[Page 276]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70175, Dec. 17, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 37165, June 30, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2077  Substituted carbazate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted carbazate (PMN P-97-267) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (c)(1) and (c)(2)(iv). The MSDS required by this paragraph shall 
include the following statements: Overexposure to this material may 
cause severe acute toxicity including death. This concern is 
particularly true with respect to direct contact to the eyes. Exposure 
to the eyes may cause severe acute toxicity including death.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (a), (b), (c), and (j).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[63 FR 65710, Nov. 30, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2078  1-Piperidinecarboxylic acid, 2-[(dichloro-hydroxy-
carbomonocycle)hydrazono]-, methyl ester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance generically identified as 1-
piperidinecarboxylic acid, 2-[(dichloro-hydroxy-carbomonocycle) 
hydrazono]-, methyl ester (PMN P-96-756) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), (b) 
(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), and 
(g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (g), (l), and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[63 FR 44576, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2079  Dichloro, hydroxy, hydrazino-carbomonocycle (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance generically identified as 
dichloro, hydroxy, hydrazino-carbomonocycle (PMN P-96-757) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), (b) 
(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), and 
(g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (g), (l), and (q).

[[Page 277]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[63 FR 44576, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2081  Dichloro, hydroxy, hydrazino-carbomonocycle-
monohydrochloride (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance generically identified as 
dichloro, hydroxy, hydrazino-carbomonocycle-monohydrochloride (PMN P-96-
758) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), (b) 
(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), and 
(g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (g), (l), and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[63 FR 44576, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2083  Polysubstituted carbomonocyclic hydroxylamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
polysubstituted carbomonocyclic hydroxylamine (PMN P-97-878) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), and (a)(6)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (d) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44576, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2084  Carbon oxyfluoride (Carbonic difluoride).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance carbon oxyfluoride (CAS No. 353-50-4), also 
referred to as carbonic difluoride, is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Manufacture, import, or processing 
of 10,000 pounds or more per year per facility for any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), and (c).
    (2) [Reserved]

[58 FR 63516, Dec. 1, 1993]

[[Page 278]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2085  Hydroxyalkylquinoline dioxoindandialkylcarboxamide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
hydroxyalkylquinoline dioxoindandialkylcarboxamide (PMN P-94-682) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements specified 
in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 11042, Mar. 1, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2086  Coco acid triamine condensate, polycarboxylic
acid salts.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as coco acid triamine 
condensate, poly car box ylic acid salts. (PMN P-92-446) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 46464, Oct. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2087  3-furancarboxaldehyde, tetrahydro-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as a 3-
furancarboxaldehyde, tetrahydro- (PMN P-98-1048; CAS No. 79710-86-4) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 368, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2088  Carboxylic acids, (C6-C9) branched and linear.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
carboxylic acids, (C6-C9) branched and linear (PMNs P-93-313, 314, 315, 
and 316) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii) and 
(g)(5).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 300 ppb for P-93-313, 314, and 315 
and N = 50 ppb for P-93-316).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 279]]

    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements specified 
in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 11042, Mar. 1, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2089  Tetrasubstituted aminocarboxylic acid.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
tetrasubstituted aminocarboxylic acid (PMN P-85-619) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(3)(ii), 
(g)(4)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (h) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 45081, Aug. 30, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2091  Propane, 1,1,1,3,3,3-hexachloro-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as propane, 
1,1,1,3,3,3-hexachloro- (PMN P-96-273; CAS No. 3607-78-1) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3423, Jan. 22, 1998, as amended at 79 FR 34636, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2092  3-Methylcholanthrene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance 3-methylcholanthrene (CAS No. 56-49-5) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Manufacture, import, or processing 
of 10,000 pounds or more per year per facility for any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), and (c).
    (2) [Reserved]

[58 FR 63516, Dec. 1, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2093  Alkenyl carboxylate, metal salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkenyl 
carboxylate, metal salt (PMN P-99-0848) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (an emulsifier for metalworking fluids) and 
(q).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 280]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[68 FR 15082, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2094  N,N'-di(alkyl heteromonocycle)amino chlorotriazine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as N,N'-
di(alkyl heteromonocycle)amino chlorotriazine (PMN P-93-1369) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(i) (this respirator meets the minimum requirement 
for persons exposed via inhalation during manufacture), (a)(5)(ii), 
(a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v) (these three respirators meet the minimum 
requirements for persons exposed via inhalation during processing and 
use), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(iv), (b) (concentration 
set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[63 FR 3424, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2095  Chromate(3-), bis 2-[[substituted-3-[(5-sulfo-1-
naphthalenyl)azo] phenyl]azo]substituted monocycle, trisodium 
(generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
chromate(3-), bis 2-[[substituted-3-[(5-sulfo-1-naphthalenyl) 
azo]phenyl]azo]substituted monocycle, trisodium (PMN P-95-1242) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (y)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[61 FR 63736, Dec. 2, 1996]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2097  Azo chromium complex dyestuff preparation 
(generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an azo 
chromium complex dyestuff preparation (PMN P-95-240) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in

[[Page 281]]

Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (v)(2), (w)(1), (w)(2), (x)(1), and (x)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[61 FR 63736, Dec. 2, 1996]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2098  Aliphatic polycarboxylic acid metal salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an 
aliphatic polycarboxylic acid metal salt (PMN P-01-7) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(v)(1), (x)(1), and (f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70176, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2120  Cyclic amide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as a cyclic amide (PMN 
P-92-131) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (concentration set at 70 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 46465, Oct. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2121  Thiosubstituted carbonate ester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
Thiosubstituted carbonate ester (PMN P-99-0654) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81399, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2122  Substituted phenyl azo substituted sulfo carbopolycycle.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted phenyl azo substituted sulfo carbopolycycle (PMN P-96-702) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 282]]

    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(r) (204,000 kg) (activated sludge adsorption 
isotherm- OPPTS 835.1110 test guideline (public draft; 61 FR 16486, 
April 15, 1996) (FRL-5363-1), daphnid acute toxicity-Sec. 797.1300, 
fish acute toxicity-Sec. 797.1400, murine immune allergic response 
study (Toxicology and Applied Pharmacology 112:190-197 (1992)). A person 
may not manufacture or import the substance beyond the following 
aggregate production volume limits, unless that person conducts the 
following corresponding studies on the substance and submits all final 
reports and underlying data in accordance with the procedures and 
criteria specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A), (a)(2)(i)(B), 
(a)(2)(i)(C), and (a)(2)(i)(D) of this section.
    (A) Each study required to be performed pursuant to this section 
must be scientifically valid. Scientifically valid means that the study 
was conducted according to:
    (1) The test guidelines specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this 
section.
    (2) An EPA-approved protocol.
    (3) TSCA Good Laboratory Practice Standards at 40 CFR part 792.
    (4) Using methodologies generally accepted at the time the study is 
initiated.
    (5) Any deviation from these requirements must be approved in 
writing by EPA.
    (B) Before starting to conduct any of the studies in paragraph 
(a)(2)(i) of this section, the person must obtain approval of test 
protocols from EPA by submitting written protocols. EPA will respond to 
the person within 4 weeks of receiving the written protocols. Published 
test guidelines specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section (e.g., 
40 CFR part 797 or part 798) provide general guidance for development of 
test protocols, but are not themselves acceptable protocols.
    (C) The person shall:
    (1) Conduct each study in good faith with due care.
    (2) Promptly furnish to EPA the results of any interim phase of each 
study.
    (3) Submit, in triplicate (with an additional sanitized copy, if 
confidential business information is involved), the final report of each 
study and all underlying data (``the report and data'') to EPA no later 
than 14 weeks prior to exceeding the applicable production volume limit. 
The final report shall contain the contents specified in 40 CFR 792.185.
    (D)(1) Except as described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(D)(2) of this 
section, if, within 6 weeks of EPA's receipt of a test report and data, 
the person receives written notice that EPA finds that the data 
generated by a study are scientifically invalid, the person is 
prohibited from further manufacture and import of the PMN substance 
beyond the applicable production volume limit.
    (2) The person may continue to manufacture and import the PMN 
substance beyond the applicable production limit only if so notified, in 
writing, by EPA in response to the person's compliance with either of 
the following paragraph (a)(2)(i)(D)(2)(i) or (a)(2)(i)(D)(2)(ii) of 
this section.
    (i) The person may reconduct the study. If there is sufficient time 
to reconduct the study and submit the report and data to EPA at least 14 
weeks before exceeding the production limit as required by paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(C)(3) of this section, the person shall comply with paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(C)(3) of this section. If there is insufficient time for the 
person to comply with paragraph (a)(2)(i)(C)(3) of this section, the 
person may exceed the production limit and shall submit the report and 
data in triplicate to EPA within a reasonable period of time, all as 
specified by EPA in the notice described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(D)(1) of 
this section. EPA will respond to the person in writing, within 6 weeks 
of receiving the person's report and data.
    (ii) The person may, within 4 weeks of receiving from EPA the notice 
described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(D)(1) of this section, submit to EPA a 
written report refuting EPA's finding. EPA will respond to the person in 
writing, within 4 weeks of receiving the person's report.
    (E) The person is not required to conduct a study specified in 
paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section if notified in writing by EPA that 
it is unnecessary to conduct that study.

[[Page 283]]

    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3424, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2140  Carbo poly cycli col azo alkyl aminoalkyl carbo mono
cyclic ester, halogen acid salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance generically identified as 
carbopolycyclicol azo al kyl a mino al kyl car bo mon o cyc lic ester, 
halogen acid salt (PMN P-88-1682) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b)(2), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4) and (c)(4) (where N = 1 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44063, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2145  Ceteareth-25 sorbate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
ceteareth-25 sorbate (PMN P-96-941) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provision of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3425, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2155  Alkoxyamino-alkyl-coumarin (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkoxyamino-alkyl-coumarin. (PMN P-00-0108) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15082, Mar. 28, 2003]

[[Page 284]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2175  Salt of cyclodiamine and mineral acid.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a salt 
of cyclodiamine and mineral acid (PMN P-91-838) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 46465, Oct. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2222  Cyclohexanamine, N,N-dimethyl-, compd. with alpha-
isotridecyl-omega-hydroxypoly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl) phosphate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as cyclohexanamine, 
N,N-dimethyl-, compd. with alpha-isotridecyl-omega-hydroxypoly(oxy-1,2-
ethanediyl) phosphate (PMN P-96-1176; CAS No. 164383-18-0) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3425, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2250  1,4-Cyclohexanediamine, cis- and trans-.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as 1,4-
cyclohexanediamine, cis- and trans- (PMNs P-87-1881 and P-87-1882; CAS 
numbers 15827-56-2 and 2615-25-0) are subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(l).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 44064, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2260  1,2-Cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, 2,2-bis[[[[2-
[(oxiranylmethoxy) carbonyl]cyclohexy]carbonyl] oxy]methyl]-1,
3-propanediyl bis(oxiranylmethyl) ester.
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance 1,2-cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, 
2,2-bis[[[[2-[(oxiranylmethoxy) carbonyl] cyclohexy]carbonyl] 
oxy]methyl]-1,3-propanediyl bis(oxiranylmethyl) ester (PMN P-92-471) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

[[Page 285]]

    (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Protection in the workplace. 
Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii), 
(a)(5)(viii), (a)(5)(ix), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 51702, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2265  Polyalkylene oxide dialkylamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
Polyalkylene oxide dialkylamine (PMN P-99-0423) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[65 FR 81399, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2270  Aliphatic dicarboxylic acid salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
aliphatic dicarboxylic acid salt (PMN P-92-1352) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 1,000 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51683, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2275  N,N,N',N'-Tetrakis(oxi ranyl- methyl)-1,3-cyclohexane
di meth anamine.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as N,N,N',N'-
tetrakis(oxiranylmethyl)-1,3-cyclohexanedimethanamine (P-84-7) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), 
(a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 
0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), (f), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(iv), and (g)(2)(v).

[[Page 286]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a) through (h).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[56 FR 25991, June 5, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2280  Cyclopropanecarboxaldehyde.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 
cyclopropanecarboxaldehyde (PMN P-96-33) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(xii), 
(a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xiv), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 
percent), and (c). Each person who is reasonsonably likely to be exposed 
by inhalation to the PMN substance in vapor form during loading of rail 
cars is provided with, and is required to wear, at a minimum, a National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) approved category 
19C Type C supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or other 
positive pressure mode and equipped with a full facepiece with an 
assigned protection factor (APF) of 200. As an alternative to the 
respiratory requirements in this section, manufacturers, importers, and 
processors may use the new chemical exposure limits provisions, 
including sampling and analytical methods which have previously been 
approved by EPA for this substance, found in the TSCA section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activites. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[63 FR 3425, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2287  DDT (Dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance DDT (dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane) (CAS 
No. 50-29-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Manufacture, import, or processing 
of 10,000 pounds or more per year per facility for any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), and (c).
    (2) [Reserved]

[58 FR 63516, Dec. 1, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2340  Dialkenylamide (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
dialkenylamide (P-87-502) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1),

[[Page 287]]

(a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(xii), (a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xiv), 
(a)(5)(xv), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), (f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), 
(g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (g) and (q).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2) and (c)(1), (c)(2).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (j).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 26099, June 26, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2345  Alkyletherpropyl dialkylamines.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as alkyletherpropyl 
dialkylamines (PMNs P-96-1510/1511/1512/1513/1514) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3425, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2350  Alkyltri, tetra, and pentaamines.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
alkyltri, tetra, and pentaamines (PMNs P-96-406/407/408) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3425, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2355  Diethylstilbestrol.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance diethylstilbestrol (CAS No. 56-53-1) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Manufacture, import, or processing 
of 10,000 pounds or more per year per facility for any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), and (c).

[[Page 288]]

    (2) [Reserved]

[58 FR 63516, Dec. 1, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2380  Disubstituted diamino ani sole.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The following chemical substance referred to by its 
premanufacture notice number and generic chemical name is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section: P-83-822, disubstituted diamino 
anisole.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Use other than as an intermediate.
    (ii) Manufacture, import, or processing for use as an intermediate 
without establishing a program whereby:
    (A) Persons employed by or under the control of the manufacturer, 
importer, or processor who may be exposed to the substance (including 
those persons involved in maintenance, packaging, and storage 
operations) wear protective gloves determined to be impervious to the 
substance by testing the gloves under the conditions of exposure or by 
evaluating the specifications provided by the manufacturer of the 
gloves, and
    (B) Packages containing the substance (including those storing the 
substance between manufacturing or importing and processing stages) are 
labeled to indicate that the substance should be handled only while 
using gloves determined to be impervious to the substance.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. In addition to the requirements of Sec. 721.17, 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of the chemical substance 
identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must maintain the 
following records for 5 years from their creation:
    (i) The results of any determination that gloves are impervious.
    (ii) The names of persons required to wear gloves.
    (iii) Copies of labels described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this 
section.
    (2) [Reserved]

[50 FR 34465, Aug. 26, 1985. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. 
Further redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 
34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2385  Fluoroalkyl diester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
fluoroalkyl diester (PMNs P-98-1046 and P-98-1047) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 368, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2410  Alkoxylated alkyldiethylenetriamine, alkyl sulfate
salts.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
alkoxylated dialkyldiethylenetriamine, alkyl sulfate salts (PMN P-94-
325, 326, and 327) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements specified 
in

[[Page 289]]

Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 11042, Mar. 1, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2420  Alkoxylated dialkyldiethylenetriamine, alkyl sulfate
salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an 
alkoxylated dialkyldiethylenetriamine, alkyl sulfate salt (PMN P-91-288) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 46465, Oct. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2465  Xanthylium, 9-(2-(ethoxycarbonyl)phenyl)-3,6-bis
(ethylamino)-2,7-dimethyl-, ethyl sulfate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as xanthylium, 9-(2-
(ethoxycarbonyl)phenyl)-3,6-bis(ethylamino)-2,7-dimethyl-, ethyl sulfate 
(PMN P-00-1195; CAS No. 26694-69-9) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f) and (j) (a basic dye for complex basic dye 
pigment manufacture).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15082, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2475  Dimetridazole.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
dimetridazole (P-90-1308) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5) (iii), 
(a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), 
(g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v) and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (f) and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44064, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]

[[Page 290]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2480  Isoalkyldimethylamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
isoalkyldimethylamine (PMN P-96-1320) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 3).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44577, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2485  1,3-Dioxolane, 2-ethenyl-.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,3-Dioxolane, 2-
ethenyl- (PMN P-96-1006; CAS No. 3984-22-3) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3)(i), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), 
(a)(5)(xii), (a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xiv), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration 
set at 1.0 percent), and (c). The imperviousness of each item pursuant 
to (a)(2)(i) and (a)(2)(ii) must be demonstrated by actual testing under 
(a)(3)(i) and not by manufacturer specifications. Permeation testing 
shall be conducted according to the ASTM F739 ``Standard Test Method for 
Resistance of Protective Clothing Materials to Permeation by Liquids or 
Gases.'' Results shall be recorded as a cumulative permeation rate as a 
function of time, and shall be documented in accordance with ASTM F739 
using the format specified in ASTM F1194-89 ``Guide for Documenting the 
Results of Chemical Permeation Testing on Protective Clothing 
Materials.'' Gloves may not be used for a time period longer than they 
are actually tested and must be replaced at the end of each work shift. 
The manufacturer, importer, or processor must submit all test data to 
the Agency and must receive written Agency approval for each type of 
glove tested prior to use of such gloves.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), and (g)(5). The 
following statements shall appear on each label as specified in Sec. 
721.72(b) and the MSDS as specified in Sec. 721.72(c): This substance 
may cause fatality. When using this substance avoid dermal contact. When 
using this substance use respiratory protection or engineering and 
process controls to mitigate respiratory exposure. When using this 
substance use dermal protection to prevent dermal exposure.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44577, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2520  Alkylated diphenyls.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
alkylated diphenyls (PMN Nos. P-90-237, P-90-248, and P-90-249) are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 1 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]

[[Page 291]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[58 FR 32237, June 8, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2527  Acetamide, N-[2-[2-(2-bromo-6-cyano-4-nitrophenyl)
diazenyl]-5-(diethylamino)phenyl]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as acetamide, N-[2-[2-
(2-bromo-6-cyano-4-nitrophenyl)diazenyl]-5-(diethylamino)phenyl]- (PMN 
P-95-514; CAS No. 2537-62-4) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[61 FR 63736, Dec. 2, 1996, as amended at 79 FR 34637, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2532  Substituted diphenylmethane (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted diphenylmethane (PMN P-97-4) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44577, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2535  Benzene, 1,1'-methylanebis[4-isocyanato-, homopolymer,
Bu alc.-blocked.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzene, 1,1'-
methylanebis[4-isocyanato-, homopolymer, Bu alc.-blocked (PMN P-95-1386; 
CAS No. 186321-98-2) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(y)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3425, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2540  Diphenylmethane diisocyanate (MDI) modified.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
diphenylmethane diiso cy a nate (MDI) modified (PMN P-92-294) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

[[Page 292]]

    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (v)(2), (w)(1), (w)(2), (x)(1), 
(x)(2), (y)(1), and (y)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 46465, Oct. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2560  Alkylated diphenyl oxide (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance alkylated diphenyl oxide (PMN P-
84-1079) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1) and (a)(3), (b) [concentration set at 1.0 percent], and 
(c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) [concentration set at 1.0 percent], 
(f), and (g)(1)(vi) and (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). 
The provision of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring that employees be provided 
with information on the location and availability of MSDSs does not 
apply when a MSDS was not required under Sec. 721.72(c).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g). The term intermediate as used in Sec. 
721.80(g) is defined as an intermediate for making sulfonated 
surfactants.
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(3), (b)(3), and (c)(3).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 26109, June 26, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 54305, Nov. 18, 1992. 
Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 
23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2565  Alkylated sulfonated diphenyl oxide, alkali
and amine salts.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as alkylated 
sulfonated diphenyl oxide, alkali salt (PMN P-93-352) and alkylated 
sulfonated diphenyl oxide, amine salt (PMN P-93-353) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 20 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51683, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2570  Alkylated diphenyls (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
alkylated diphenyls (PMNs P-97-869/870/871) are subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.

[[Page 293]]

    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44577, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2575  Disubstituted diphenylsulfone.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
disubstituted diphenylsulfone (PMN P-92-1119) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iv), 
(a)(5)(v), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), 
(g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5). 
The following additional statements shall appear on each label and MSDS 
as required by this paragraph: This substance may cause blood effects.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (o), and (q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(b)(1) and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 51683, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2577  Certain copper complexes of (substituted sulfonaphthyl
azo substituted phenyl) disulfonaphthyl azo, amine salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as cuprate(3-), [3-[2-
[5-(hydroxy-.kappa.O)-4-[2-[1-(hydroxy-.kappa.O)-6-(phenylamino)-3-
sulfo-2-naphthalenyl]diazenyl-.kappa.N1]-2-methylphenyl]diazenyl]-1,5-
naphthalenedisulfonato(5-)]-, hydrogen, compd. with 2,2'-
iminobis[ethanol] (1:3:3) (PMN P-00-0364; CAS No. 1078726-27-8) and 
cuprate(3-), [3-[2-[5-(hydroxy-.kappa.O)-4-[2-[1-(hydroxy-.kappa.O)-6-
(phenylamino)-3-sulfo-2-naphthalenyl]diazenyl-.kappa.N1]-2-
methylphenyl]diazenyl]-1,5-naphthalenedisulfonato(5-)]-, ammonium (1:3) 
(PMN P-00-0365; CAS No. 1078726-28-9) are subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15082, Mar. 28, 2003, as amended at 79 FR 34637, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2580  C.I. Disperse Red 152 (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 294]]

chemical substance identified generically as C.I. disperse red 152 (PMN 
P-97-820) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44577, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2582  Reaction product of alkylene diamine, MDl, substituted 
carbomonocyclic amine and alkylamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as reaction 
product of alkylene diamine, MDl, substituted carbomonocyclic amine and 
alkylamine (PMN P-98-1262) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15083, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2584  Dodecanoic acid, 12-amino-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as dodecanoic acid, 12-
amino- (PMN P-98-0823; CAS No. 693-57-2) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), 
(a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (g). 
As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a 
manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow the NCEL 
provision listed in the 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL 
is 1.0 mg/m\3\ as an 8-hour time-weighted average verified by actual 
monitoring data.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(vii), 
(g)(2)(ii), and (g)(2)(iv).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (g), (r) (6,000,000 kg.), and a 
carcinogenicity study (OPPTS 870.4200). A person may not manufacture or 
import the substance beyond the aggregate production volume limit, 
unless that person conducts this study on the substance and submits all 
final reports and underlying data in accordance with the procedures and 
criteria specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(A), (a)(2)(iii)(B), 
(a)(2)(iii)(C), and (a)(2)(iii)(D) of this section.
    (A) Each study required to be performed pursuant to this section 
must be scientifically valid. Scientifically valid means that the study 
was conducted according to:
    (1) The test guidelines specified in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this 
section.
    (2) An EPA-approved protocol.
    (3) TSCA Good Laboratory Practice Standards at 40 CFR part 792.
    (4) Using methodologies generally accepted at the time the study is 
initiated.
    (5) Any deviation from these requirements must be approved in 
writing by EPA.
    (B) Before starting to conduct any of the studies in paragraph 
(a)(2)(iii) of

[[Page 295]]

this section, the person must obtain approval of test protocols from EPA 
by submitting written protocols. EPA will respond to the person within 4 
weeks of receiving the written protocols. Published test guidelines 
specified in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section (e.g., 40 CFR part 
797 or part 798) provide general guidance for development of test 
protocols, but are not themselves acceptable protocols.
    (C) The person shall:
    (1) Conduct each study in good faith with due care.
    (2) Promptly furnish to EPA the results of any interim phase of each 
study.
    (3) Submit, in triplicate (with an additional sanitized copy, if 
confidential business information is involved), the final report of each 
study and all underlying data (``the report and data'') to EPA no later 
than 14 weeks prior to exceeding the applicable production volume limit. 
The final report shall contain the contents specified in 40 CFR 792.185.
    (D)(1) Except as described in paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(D)(2) of this 
section, if, within 6 weeks of EPA's receipt of a test report and data, 
the person receives written notice that EPA finds that the data 
generated by a study are scientifically invalid, the person is 
prohibited from further manufacture and import of the PMN substance 
beyond the applicable production volume limit.
    (2) The person may continue to manufacture and import the PMN 
substance beyond the applicable production limit only if so notified, in 
writing, by EPA in response to the person's compliance with either of 
the following paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(D)(2)(i) or (a)(2)(iii)(D)(2)(ii) 
of this section.
    (i) The person may reconduct the study. If there is sufficient time 
to reconduct the study and submit the report and data to EPA at least 14 
weeks before exceeding the production limit as required by paragraph 
(a)(2)(iii)(C)(3) of this section, the person shall comply with 
paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(C)(3) of this section. If there is insufficient 
time for the person to comply with paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(C)(3) of this 
section, the person may exceed the production limit and shall submit the 
report and data in triplicate to EPA within a reasonable period of time, 
all as specified by EPA in the notice described in paragraph 
(a)(2)(iii)(D)(1) of this section. EPA will respond to the person in 
writing, within 6 weeks of receiving the person's report and data.
    (ii) The person may, within 4 weeks of receiving from EPA the notice 
described in paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(D)(1) of this section, submit to EPA 
a written report refuting EPA's finding. EPA will respond to the person 
in writing, within 4 weeks of receiving the person's report.
    (E) The person is not required to conduct a study specified in 
paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section if notified in writing by EPA that 
it is unnecessary to conduct that study.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15083, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2585  Sodium salts of dodecylphenol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as sodium 
salts of dodecylphenol (PMNs P-97-1060/1061/1062) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.

[[Page 296]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44577, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2600  Epibromohydrin.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance epibromohydrin, CAS Number 3132-64-7, [Listed 
in TSCA Inventory as oxirane,(bromoethyl)-] is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is any use.
    (b) Special requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Persons who must report. Section 721.5 applies to this section 
except for Sec. 721.5(a)(2). A person who intends to manufacture, 
import, or process for commercial purposes the substance identified in 
paragraph (a)(1) of this section and intends to distribute the substance 
in commerce must submit a significant new use notice.
    (2) [Reserved]

[52 FR 41300, Oct. 27, 1987. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. 
Further redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 
34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2625  Reaction product of alkane diol and epichlorohydrin.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as reaction 
product of alkanediol and epichlorohydrin (PMN P-89-760) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(viii), (a)(5)(ix), (a)(6)(ii), 
(a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), and (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(v), 
(g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (l), and (q). (The production limit applies 
to the aggregate production volume of both P-89-750 and P-89-760. 
Results from testing this substance can be used to evaluate the toxicity 
P-89-750 as well.)
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (b)(1), 
(b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2).
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(2)(ii) (Oil and grease separation may be used as an alternative 
treatment.), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), 
(g), (h), (i), (j), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 46772, Nov. 6, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 
24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2673  Aromatic epoxide resin (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as aromatic 
epoxide resin (PMN P-99-1399) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(y)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.

[[Page 297]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15083, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2675  Perfluoroalkyl epoxide (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
perfluoroalkyl epoxide (PMN P-86-562) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b)(2), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(v). The provision of 
Sec. 721.72(d) requiring that employees be provided with information on 
the location and availability of MSDSs does not apply when an MSDS is 
not required under Sec. 721.72(c). The provision of Sec. 721.72(g) 
requiring placement of specific information on an MSDS does not apply 
when an MSDS is not required under Sec. 721.72(c).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (g) and (q).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2).
    (v) Release to water. Sec. 721.90 (a)(3), (b)(3), and (c)(3).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (g), (i), (j), and 
(k).
    (2) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.
    (3) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 26099, June 26, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2685  Polyisobutene epoxide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
polyisobutene epoxide (PMNs P-99-951 and P-99-952) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[68 FR 70176, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2725  Trichlorobutylene oxide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance trichlorobutylene oxide (TCBO), CAS Number 
3083-25-8, [Listed in TSCA Inventory as oxirane, (2,2,2-trichloroethyl)-
] is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is any use.
    (b) Special requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Persons who must report. Section 721.5 applies to this section 
except for Sec. 721.5(a)(2). A person who intends to manufacture, 
import, or process for commercial purposes the substance

[[Page 298]]

identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and intends to distribute 
the substance in commerce must submit a significant new use notice.
    (2) [Reserved]

[52 FR 41300, Oct. 27, 1987. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. 
Further redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 
34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2752  Epoxy resin containing phosphorus (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an epoxy 
resin containing phosphorus (PMN P-00-912) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.575(b)(1) apply to this section.

[68 FR 70176, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2755  Cycloaliphatic epoxy resin (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
cycloaliphatic epoxy resin (PMN P-98-105) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(viii), 
(a)(5)(ix), (a)(5)(x), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c). As an alternative to the respiratory requirements 
listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow 
the NCEL provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for 
this substance. The NCEL is 0.3 mg/m\3\.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), 
(g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[65 FR 368, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2800  Erionite fiber.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance, erionite fiber (CAS No. 66733-21-9 (when an 
exact molecular formula is known) and 12510-42-8 (when an exact 
molecular formula is not known)), is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by the following paragraphs:
    (1) Persons who must report. Section 721.5 applies to this section 
except for Sec. 721.5(a)(2). A person who intends to manufacture, 
import, or process for commercial purposes the substance identified in 
paragraph (a)(1) of this section and intends to distribute the substance 
in commerce must submit a significant new use notice.

[[Page 299]]

    (2) Exemptions. Section 721.45 applies to this section except for 
Sec. 721.45(f). A person who intends to import or process the substance 
identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section as part of an article is 
subject to the notification provisions of Sec. 721.25.

[56 FR 56472, Nov. 5, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2805  2-Propenoic acid, 2-(phenylthio)ethyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenoic acid, 2-
(phenylthio)ethyl ester (PMN P-96-824; CAS No. 95175-38-5) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3426, Jan. 22, 1998, as amended at 79 FR 34637, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2825  Alkyl ester (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance alkyl ester (PMN P-84-968) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent) and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). The 
provision of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring that employees to be provided 
with information on the location and availability of a written hazard 
communication program does not apply when the written program is not 
required under Sec. 721.72(a). The provision of Sec. 721.72(g) 
requiring placement of specific information on a label does not apply 
when a label is not required under Sec. 721.72(b).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (k) and (q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(3), (b)(3), and (c)(3).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (c), (e), (f), (i) 
and (j).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 32414, Aug. 9, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 
24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2900  Substituted aminobenzoic acid ester (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance substituted aminobenzoic acid 
ester (PMN P-84-951) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1) and (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and 
(c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b)(2), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(vii) and (g)(2)(v). The provisions of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring 
employees to be provided with information on the location and 
availability of

[[Page 300]]

a written hazard communication program and MSDSs do not apply when the 
written program and MSDS are not required under Sec. 721.72 (a) and 
(c), respectively. The provision of Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement 
of specific information on a MSDS does not apply when a MSDS in not 
required under Sec. 721.72(c).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (c), (e), (f), and 
(i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 32415, Aug. 9, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 
24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2920  tert-Amyl peroxy alkylene ester (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance tert-amyl peroxy alkylene ester 
(PMN P-85-1180) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1) and (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and 
(c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f) and (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5). The 
provision of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring that employees to be provided 
with information on the location and availability of a written hazard 
communication program does not apply when the written program is not 
required under Sec. 721.72(a).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2) and (a)(3), (b)(1), (b)(2) and (b)(3).
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(2)(vi), (b)(2)(vi) and (c)(2)(vi).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 32413, Aug. 9, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 
24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2925  Brominated aromatic ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
brominated aromatic ester (PMN P-95-1128) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(1), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and 
(g)(5).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),

[[Page 301]]

(b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[63 FR 3426, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.2950  Carboxylic acid glycidyl esters.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
carboxylic acid glycidyl ester (PMN P-92-776) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in this 
paragraph.
    (i) The significant new uses are:
    (A) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), 
(a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 
0.1 percent), and (c). As an alternative to the respiratory requirements 
in this section, manufacturers, importers, and processors may use the 
New Chemical Exposure Limits provisions, including sampling and 
analytical methods which have previously been approved by EPA for this 
substance, found in the 5(e) consent order for this substance.
    (B) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), 
(g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (C) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (D) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (A) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (B) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (C) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.
    (2) The chemical substance identified as carboxylic acid glycidyl 
ester (PMN P-92-777) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in this paragraph.
    (i) The significant new uses are:
    (A) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i) (Sec. 
721.63(a)(5)(i) applies only during processing operations), (a)(5)(ii), 
(a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i), 
(b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). As an alternative to 
the respiratory requirements in this section, manufacturers, importers, 
and processors may use the New Chemical Exposure Limits provisions, 
including sampling and analytical methods which have previously been 
approved by EPA for this substance, found in the 5(e) consent order for 
this substance.
    (B) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), 
(g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (C) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (D) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (A) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (B) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (C) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.
    (b) [Reserved]

[59 FR 27483, May 27, 1994]

[[Page 302]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3000  Dicarboxylic acid monoester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The following chemical substance referred to by its 
premanufacture notice number and its generic chemical name is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section: dicarboxylic acid monoester, P-83-255.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Any manufacture in the United States for commercial purposes.
    (ii) Failure to require the use of gloves determined to be 
impervious to the substance, and/or failure to require the use of 
clothing to prevent dermal contact for any person involved in any 
processing or use operation where dermal contact may occur. (Gloves may 
be determined to be impervious to the substance either by testing the 
gloves under the conditions of use or by relying on the manufacturer's 
specifications.)
    (iii) Distribution in commerce by any person, including importers, 
processors, and distributors, without affixing to each container of any 
formulation containing the substance a label that includes, in letters 
no smaller than 10 point type, the following statements:

    WARNING! HARMFUL IF INHALED OR ABSORBED THROUGH THE SKIN. MAY CAUSE 
REPRODUCTIVE EFFECTS.

--Do not get in eye, on skin, or clothing.
--Do not breathe (vapor, mist, spray, dust).
--Use with adequate ventilation.
--Wear impervious gloves and protective equipment to prevent contact or 
exposure.
--Promptly remove contaminated non-imprevious clothing, wash before 
reuse.
--Discard contaminated leather shoes.
--Wash thoroughly after handling, and before eating, drinking, or 
smoking.
--Keep container closed.
    FIRST AID: In case of contact.
    EYES: Immediately flush with water for at least 15 minutes.
    SKIN: Promptly wash thoroughly with mild soap and water.
    INHALATION: Remove to fresh air. If breathing is difficult, give 
oxygen.
    INGESTION: If conscious, give water and induce vomiting.

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. In addition to the requirements of Sec. 721.17, 
importers and processors of the chemical substance identified in 
paragraph (a)(1) of this section must maintain the following records for 
five years from their creation:
    (i) The names of persons required to wear protective clothing.
    (ii) The name and address of each person to whom the substance is 
sold or transferred and the date of such sale or transfer.
    (2) [Reserved]

[49 FR 43064, Oct. 26, 1984. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. 
Further redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 
34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3020  Ethaneperoxoic acid, 1,1-dimethylpropyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as ethaneperoxoic acid, 
1,1-dimethylpropyl ester (PMN P-85-680; CAS No. 690-83-5) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 61).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 26111, June 26, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 78 FR 46286, July 31, 
2013]

[[Page 303]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3025  Fatty acids C [bdi1][bdi2]-[bdi1][bdi8], C &bdi1&bdi8;
unsaturated, C [bdi1][bdi2]-[bdi1][bdi8] alkyl esters (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fatty 
acids C<INF>12-18</INF>, C<INF>18</INF> unsaturated, C<INF>12-18</INF> 
alkyl esters (PMNs P-94-697 through P-94-895) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (750,000 kilograms).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of these 
substances is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of these substances without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for these substances, the employer becomes aware that 
these substances may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into an MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not being 
manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, 
the employer must add the new information to an MSDS before the 
substances are reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive or who 
have received the substances from the employer within 5 years from the 
date the employer becomes aware of the new information described in 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A), are provided an MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of 
the new information.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 369, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3031  Boric acid (H [bdi3]BO [bdi3], zinc salt (2 = 3).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as boric acid 
(H<INF>3</INF>BO<INF>3</INF>), zinc salt (2 = 3) (PMN P-97-552; CAS No. 
10192-46-8) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 3).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44578, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3032  Boric acid (H [bdi3]BO [bdi3]), zinc salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as boric acid 
(H<INF>3</INF>BO<INF>2</INF>), zinc salt (PMN P-97-553; CAS No. 14720-
55-9) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 3).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 304]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44578, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3034  Methylamine esters.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
methylamine esters (PMN P-94-982) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements specified 
in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 11042, Mar. 1, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3062  1H-Indene-2-carboxylic acid, 5-chloro-2,3-dihydro-1
-oxo-, methyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1H-indene-2-
carboxylic acid, 5-chloro-2,3-dihydro-1-oxo-, methyl ester (PMN P-00-
966; CAS No. 65738-56-9) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 200).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70176, Dec. 17, 2003, as amended at 79 FR 34637, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3063  Certain substituted phenyl azo substituted phenyl 
esters.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as glycine, N-[3-
(acetylamino)-4-[2-(2-cyano-4-nitrophenyl)diazenyl]phenyl]-N-(2-methoxy-
2-oxoethyl)-, methyl ester (PMN P-95-0655: CAS No. 149850-30-6); L-
alanine, N-[5-(acetylamino)-2-chloro-4-[2-(2-cyano-4-
nitrophenyl)diazenyl]phenyl]-, methyl ester (PMN P-95-0782; CAS No. 
157707-95-4); and generically as substituted phenyl azo substituted 
phenyl esters (PMN P-95-0871) are subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(w)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[61 FR 63736, Dec. 2, 1996, as amended at 79 FR 34637, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3080  Substituted phosphate ester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted phosphate ester

[[Page 305]]

(PMN P-85-730) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), and 
(g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (iv) Release to water. Section 721.90 (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 26100, June 26, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3085  Brominated phthalate ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
brominated phthalate ester (PMN P-90-581) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of these substances without providing risk 
notification as follows.
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not being 
manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, 
the employer must add the new information to an MSDS before the 
substances are reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive, or who 
have received the substance from the employer within 5 years from the 
date the employer becomes aware of the new information described in 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, are provided an MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing the information required under 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the 
employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[63 FR 3426, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3100  Oligomeric silicic acid ester compound with a hy
droxyl al kyla mine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
oligomeric silicic acid ester compound with a hydroxylalkylamine (PMN P-
91-118) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant

[[Page 306]]

new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(a).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 46465, Oct. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3110  Polycarboxylic acid ester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
polycarboxylic acid ester (PMN P-97-1108) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(1) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or evocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70176, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3130  Sulfuric acid, mono-C [bdi9]-[bdi1][bdi1]-alkyl esters,
sodium salts.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as sulfuric acid, mono-
C<INF>9-11</INF>-alkyl esters, sodium salts (PMN P-01-149; CAS No. 
84501-49-5) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(s) (5,000 kilogram (kg)).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70176, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3135  Phosphorous modified epoxy resin (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
phosphorous modified epoxy resin (PMNs P-00-992 and P-01-471) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90(a)(4), 
(b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 6).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70176, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3140  Vinyl epoxy ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance vinyl epoxy ester (PMN P-85-527) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant

[[Page 307]]

new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent) and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), 
(g)(4)(i), and (g)(5). The provision of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring that 
employees to be provided with information on the location and 
availability of a written hazard communication program does not apply 
when the written program is not required under Sec. 721.72(a).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (k) (as an injection molding coating), and 
(y).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(2), 
(b)(2), and (c)(2).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (e), (f), (g), 
(h), and (j).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 39900, Sept. 28, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3152  Ethanaminium, N-ethyl-2-hydroxy-N,N-bis(2-hydroxyethyl)
-, diester with C [bdi1][bdi2]-[bdi1][bdi8] fatty acids, ethyl 
sulfates (salts).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance ethanaminium, N-ethyl-2-hydroxy-
N,N-bis(2-hydroxyethyl)-, diester with C<INF>12-18</INF> fatty acids, 
ethyl sulfates (salts) (P-94-24) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a material 
safety data sheet (MSDS) as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days 
from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If this 
substance is not being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the 
employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to an 
MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive, or who 
have received, this substance from the employer within 5 years from the 
date the employer becomes aware of the new information described in 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, are provided an MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing the information required under 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the 
employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (1,900,000 kg).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[60 FR 45081, Aug. 30, 1995]

[[Page 308]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3155  3,8-Dioxa-4,7-disiladecane, 4,4,7,7-tetraethoxy-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 3,8-dioxa-4,7-
disiladecane, 4,4,7,7-tetraethoxy- (PMN P-95-1326; CAS No. 16068-37-4) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(y)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3426, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3160  1-Chloro-2-bromoethane.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance 1-chloro-2-bromoethane (CAS No. 107-04-0) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Persons who must report. Section 721.5 applies to this section 
except for Sec. 721.5(a)(2). A person who intends to manufacture, 
import, or process for commercial purposes the substance identified in 
paragraph (a)(1) of this section and intends to distribute the substance 
in commerce must submit a significant new use notice.
    (2) [Reserved]

[53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as 
amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3220  Pentachloroethane.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance pentachloroethane, CAS Number 76-01-7, is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Persons who must report. Section 721.5 applies to this section 
except for Sec. 721.5(a)(2). A person who intends to manufacture, 
import, or process for commercial purposes the substance identified in 
paragraph (a)(1) of this section and intends to distribute the substance 
in commerce must submit a significant new use notice.
    (2) [Reserved]

[51 FR 32079, Sept. 9, 1986. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988 
and correctly redesignated at 56 FR 29903, July 1, 1991. Further 
redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, 
June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3248  Ethane, 1,2,2- trichlorodifluoro-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as ethane, 1,2,2-
trichlorodifluoro- (CAS No. 354-21-2, PMN No. P-92-595) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions

[[Page 309]]

of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[58 FR 32237, June 8, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3260  Ethanediimidic acids.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as ethanediimidic 
acids (PMNs P-90-1472 and P-90-1473), are subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(4)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1) and (b)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44065, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3310  Poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)],[alpha]-(1-oxo-2-
propenyl)-[omega]-[(tetrahydro-2-furanyl)methoxy]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-
ethanediyl)],[alpha]-(1-oxo-2-propenyl)-[omega]-[(tetrahydro-2-
furanyl)methoxy]- (PMN P-98-150; CAS No.149303-87-7) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. Manufacture of the PMN substance with an 
average number of moles of propoxy group between 5 and 14.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 369, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3320  Ethanol, 2-amino-, com pound with N-hydroxy-N-nitro
soben zena mine (1:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as ethanol, 2-amino-, 
compound with N-hydroxy-N-nitrosobenzenamine (1:1) (P-86-542), is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), and (g)(2)(v).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 720.80(k) (monomer stabilizer).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable

[[Page 310]]

to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as 
specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (j).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[56 FR 25990, June 5, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3340  Ethanol, 2,2'-(hexylamino)bis-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as ethanol, 2,2'-
(hexylamino)bis- (PMN P-91-1346) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements as 
specified at Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 31968, July 20, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3350  N-Nitrosodiethanolamine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance N-nitrosodiethanolamine (CAS No. 1116-54-7) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Manufacture, import, or processing 
of 10,000 pounds or more per year per facility for any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), and (c).
    (2) [Reserved]

[58 FR 63517, Dec. 1, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3360  Substituted ethanolamine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted ethanolamine (PMN P-91-490) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (v)(2), (w)(1), (w)(2), (x)(1), 
(x)(2), (y)(1), and (y)(2).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 46466, Oct. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3364  Aliphatic ether.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an 
aliphatic ether (PMN P-93-1381) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 311]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[59 FR 27484, May 27, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3374  Alkylenediolalkyl ether.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as an alkylenediolalkyl 
ether (PMN P-93-362) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51684, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3380  Benzenamine, 4-methoxy-2-methyl-N-phenyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzenamine, 4-
methoxy-2-methyl-N-phenyl- (PMN P-83-910; CAS No. 41317-15-1) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1) and (a)(3).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b)(1)(i)(D) and (g)(2)(v). The provision of Sec. 
721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information in an MSDS does 
not apply when an MSDS is not required under Sec. 721.72(c).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), and (g).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[56 FR 25989, June 5, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 79 FR 34637, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3420  Benzene, 1-bromo-4-methoxy-2-methyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzene, 1-bromo-4-
methoxy-2-methyl- (PMN P-83-906; CAS No. 27060-75-9) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1) and (a)(3).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b)(1)(i)(D) and (g)(2)(v). The provision of Sec. 
721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information in an MSDS does 
not apply when an MSDS is not required under Sec. 721.72(c).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), and (g).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[56 FR 25990, June 5, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 79 FR 34637, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3430  4-Bromophenyl phenyl ether.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The

[[Page 312]]

chemical substance 4-bromophenyl phenyl ether (CAS No. 101-55-3) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Manufacture, import, or processing 
of 10,000 pounds or more per year per facility for any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), and (c).
    (2) [Reserved]

[58 FR 63517, Dec. 1, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3435  Butoxy-substituted ether alkane.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as butoxy-
substituted ether alkane (PMN P-92-755) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (b) 
(concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). In addition, the employer 
must be able to demonstrate that the gloves selected for handling the 
chemical substance provide an impervious barrier to prevent dermal 
exposure during normal and expected duration and conditions of exposure 
within the work area by testing the material used to make the gloves and 
the construction of the gloves to establish that they will be impervious 
for the expected duration and conditions of exposure. The testing must 
subject the gloves to the expected conditions of exposure, including the 
likely combinations of chemical substances to which the gloves may be 
exposed in the work area. There must be no permeation of the gloves by 
the chemical substance (or an EPA-approved analogue) greater than 0.16 
[micro]g/cm\2\/min after 8 h of testing in accordance with the most 
recent versions of the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) 
F739 ``Standard Test Method for Resistance of Protective Clothing 
Materials to Permeation by Liquids or Gases'' and ASTM F1194 ``Guide for 
Documenting the Results of Chemical Permeation Testing of Protective 
Clothing Materials.'' The employer must submit all test data to the 
Agency and must receive written Agency approval of the test results for 
each type of glove tested prior to use of such gloves. Nitrile gloves 
with a minimum thickness of 0.5588 mm have already been tested and found 
to satisfy the terms of this section. Gloves contaminated with the PMN 
substance shall be disposed of after every work shift.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). In addition, the 
human health hazard statements shall include a statement that this 
substance may cause systemic toxicity and blood effects.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (g) and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) and records documenting compliance with the 
glove permeability testing requirements of this section are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 51684, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3437  Dialkyl ether.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as dialkyl 
ether (PMN P-93-1308) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 313]]

    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 180 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements specified 
in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 11042, Mar. 1, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3438  Chlorohydroxyalkyl butyl ether (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
chlorohydroxyalkyl butyl ether (PMN P-99-1295) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 3).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70177, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3440  Haloalkyl substituted cyclic ethers.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances haloalkyl substituted cyclic 
ethers (PMN P-85-368 and P-85-369) are subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in this paragraph.
    (i) The significant new uses are:
    (A) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii) and 
(a)(6)(v) and (a)(6)(vi), (b) [concentration set at 1.0 percent], and 
(c).
    (B) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (d), (e) [concentration set at 1.0 percent], (f), and 
(g)(1)(iii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv) and (g)(2)(v), and 
(g)(5). The provision of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring that employees be 
provided with information on the location and availability of MSDSs does 
not apply when a MSDS was not required under Sec. 721.72(c). The 
provisions of Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific 
information on a label and MSDS do not apply when a label and MSDS are 
not required under Sec. 721.72 (b) and (c), respectively.
    (C) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (D) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1) and 
(a)(2), (b)(1) and (b)(2), and (c)(1) and (c)(2).
    (ii) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (A) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of the 
substances, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (k).
    (B) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (C) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.
    (2) The chemical substance haloalkyl substituted cyclic ether (PMN 
P-85-367) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in this paragraph.
    (i) The significant new uses are:
    (A) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), and 
(a)(6)(v) and (a)(6)(vi), (b) [concentration set at 0.1 percent], and 
(c).
    (B) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (d), (e) [concentration set at 0.1 percent], (f), and 
(g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(vii),

[[Page 314]]

(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv) and (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). The 
provision of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring that employees be provided with 
information on the location and availability of MSDSs does not apply 
when a MSDS was not required under Sec. 721.72(c). The provisions of 
Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information on a label 
and MSDS do not apply when a label and MSDS are not required under Sec. 
721.72 (b) and (c), respectively.
    (C) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (D) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1) and (b)(2), and (c)(1) and (c)(2).
    (ii) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (A) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (k).
    (B) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (C) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.
    (b) [Reserved]

[55 FR 26109, June 26, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3465  Stilbene diglycidyl ether.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as stilbene diglycidyl 
ether (PMN P-96-1427) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iv), 
(a)(5)(v), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). 
As an alternative to the respiratory protection requirements of this 
section, manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance may 
follow the terms of the new chemical exposure limits section in the TSCA 
section 5(e) consent order for this substance.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). The label and MSDS as required by 
this paragraph shall also include the following statement: When using 
this substance use respiratory protection or maintain workplace airborne 
concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-weighted average of 0.5 
milligram (mg)/meter (m\3\).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[63 FR 3426, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3480  Halogenated biphenyl glycidyl ethers.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
halogenated biphenyl glycidyl ethers (PMNs P-90-1844, P-90-1845, and P-
90-1846) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration 
set at 0.1 percent) and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), 
(g)(i)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), 
(g)(3)(ii) and (g)(5).

[[Page 315]]

    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(l).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 44065, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3485  Hydrofluorocarbon alkyl ether.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
hydrofluorocarbon alkyl ether (PMN P-95-1578) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section. Non-spray uses are exempt from the provisions of 
this rule.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), and (a)(6)(v).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3427, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3486  Polyglycerin mono(4-nonylphenyl) ether.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
polyglycerin mono(4-nonylphenyl) ether (PMN P-94-2230) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 45082, Aug. 30, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3488  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), alpha substituted-omega
-hydroxy-, C [bdi1][bdi6]-[bdi2][bdi0] alkyl ethers.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), alpha substituted-omega-hydroxy-, 
C<INF>16-20</INF> alkyl ethers (PMN P-87-323) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.90 (a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 20).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3427, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3500  Perhalo alkoxy ether.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as perhalo 
alkoxy ether (PMN P-

[[Page 316]]

83-1227) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i) through (a)(5)(iii), (a)(6)(v), 
(a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communicatiom program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(2)(v). The 
provisions of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring employees to be provided with 
information on the location and availability of a written hazard 
communication program and MSDSs do not apply when the written program 
and MSDS are not required under Sec. 721.72 (a), and (c), respectively. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific 
information on a label and MSDS do not apply when a label and MSDS are 
not required under Sec. 721.72 (b), and (c), respectively.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(h).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (e), and (f).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 46772, Nov. 6, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3520  Aliphatic polyglycidyl ether.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance aliphatic polyglycidyl ether (PMN 
P-89-1036) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv) through (a)(5) (vii), 
(a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(3)(ii), 
(g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c) through (i), and 
(k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 39900, Sept. 28, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3550  Dipropylene glycol dimethyl ether.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as dipropylene glycol 
dimethyl ether (PMN P-93-507; CAS No. 111109-77-4) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section. This class 2 substance is exempt from 
the notification requirements of this rule if it contains less than 5 
percent by weight of the specific isomer, propane, 2,2'-oxybis[1-
methoxy- (CAS No. 189354-80-1), which is one of the possible products of 
the manufacturing process for PMN P-93-507.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), and (a)(3).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o).

[[Page 317]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. The following recordkeeping 
requirements specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[62 FR 59583, Nov. 4, 1997; 62 FR 63035, Nov. 26, 1997]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3560  Derivative of tetra chloro ethy lene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The following chemical substance referred to by its 
premanufacture notice number and generic chemical name is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section: Derivative of tetrachloroethylene, P-
82-684.
    (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Manufacture or processing 
without requiring use of the following by persons employed by or under 
the control of the manufacturer or processor who are involved in, and in 
the immediate area of, any operation where dermal contact and/or 
inhalation of the substance may occur:
    (A) A respirator, approved by the National Institute for 
Occupational Safety (NIOSH) to provide protection against dusts having 
an air contamination level not less than 0.05 mg per cubic meter of air 
and fitted according to procedures established by the Occupational 
Safety and Health Administration and Mine Safety and Health 
Administration regulations and set forth at 29 CFR 1910.134, and 30 CFR 
part 11, respectively, and
    (B) Gloves which are determined to be impervious to the substance 
under the conditions of potential exposure (gloves must be determined to 
be impervious to the substance either by testing the gloves under the 
conditions of exposure, including the duration of exposure, or by 
evaluating the data and specifications supplied by the glove 
manufacturer or others, in the context of the conditions of exposure 
including the duration of exposure, associated chemical substances, 
chemical and mechanical stresses, and potential durations of exposures.
    (ii) Manufacture or processing without requiring that any container 
of the substance or of a formulation containing the substance be:
    (A) Packaged to prevent any leakage of the substance to the 
environment.
    (B) Labeled on the package that the substance should be handled only 
while using NIOSH approved respirators and impervious gloves.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. In addition to the requirements of Sec. 721.17, 
manufacturers and processors of the substance identified in paragraph 
(a)(1) of this section must maintain the following records for five 
years from the date of their creation:
    (i) The names of persons required to wear protective equipment in 
accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (ii) The names and addresses of any person to whom the substance is 
sold or transferred and the dates of such sale or transfer.
    (iii) Records of respirator fit tests for each person required to 
wear a respirator in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (iv) The method for determining that the gloves described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section are impervious to the substance, the 
date(s) of such determination, and the results of that determination.
    (2) [Reserved]

(Secs. 5, 8, Pub. L. 94-469, 90 Stat. 2012 (15 U.S.C. 2604, 2607))

[49 FR 42932, Oct. 25, 1984. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. 
Further redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3565  Ethylenediamine, substituted, sodium salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
ethylenediamine, substituted, sodium salt (PMN P-97-328) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the

[[Page 318]]

significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3427, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3620  Fatty acid amine condensate, polycarboxylic acid 
salts.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as a fatty acid amine 
condensate, polycarboxylic acid salts. (PMN P-92-445) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 46466, Oct. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3625  Fatty acid amine salt (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fatty 
acid amine salt (PMN P-88-1889) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (b)(2), (c), (f), and (g)(3)(ii). The provisions of Sec. 
721.72(g) would require the following warning language on the label: 
Minimize releases to the environment.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (k) and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), 
(i), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 33305, Aug. 15, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3627  Branched synthetic fatty acid.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
branched synthetic fatty acid (PMN P-94-422) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (g), and (l).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements specified 
in

[[Page 319]]

Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 11043, Mar. 1, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3629  Triethanolamine salts of fatty acids.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
triethanolamine salts of fatty acids (PMN Nos. P-92-156, P-92-157, and 
P-92-159) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of these 
substances is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of these substances without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for these substances, the employer becomes aware that 
these substances may present a risk of injury to human health, the 
employer must incorporate this new information, and any information on 
methods for protecting against such risk, into an MSDS as described in 
Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware 
of the new information. If these substances are not being manufactured, 
imported, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer 
must add the new information to an MSDS before the substances are 
reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive, or who 
have received these substances from the employer within 5 years from the 
date the employer becomes aware of the new information described in 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, are provided an MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing the information required under 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the 
employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 32238, June 8, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3635  Octadecanoic acid, ester with 1,2-propanediol, phosphate, anhydride with silicic acid (H [bdi4]SiO [bdi4]).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as octadecanoic acid, 
ester with 1,2-propanediol, phosphate, anhydride with silicic acid 
(H<INF>4</INF>SiO<INF>4</INF>) (PMN P-96-1520; CAS No. 177771-31-2) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5). The 
following statement shall appear on each label as specified in Sec. 
721.72(b) and the MSDS as specified in Sec. 721.72(c): Do not release 
into the environment in quantities that allow surface water 
concentrations to exceed 6 ppb.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (15 months).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 6).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),

[[Page 320]]

(b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44578, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3680  Ethylene oxide adduct of fatty acid ester with 
pentaerythritol.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as ethylene 
oxide adduct of fatty acid ester with pentaerythritol (PMN P-91-442) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 46466, Oct. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3700  Fatty acid, ester with styrenated phenol, ethylene
oxide adduct.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fatty 
acid, ester with styrenated phenol, ethylene oxide adduct (P-90-364) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(ii), and (g)(5).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 400 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 44065, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3710  Polyether modified fatty acids (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
Polyether modified fatty acids (PMN P-99-0435) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[65 FR 81399, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3720  Fatty amide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a fatty 
amide (PMN P-91-87) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 321]]

    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 46466, Oct. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3740  Bisalkylated fatty alkyl amine oxide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
bisalkylated fatty alkyl amine oxide (PMN P-90-643) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (concentration set at 80 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), and (c).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 19238, Apr. 25, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3760  Fluorene-containing diaromatic amines.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
fluorene-containing diaromatic amines (PMN P-88-998 and P-88-999) are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where n = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 45082, Aug. 30, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3764  Fluorene substituted aromatic amine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
fluorene substituted aromatic amine (PMN P-91-43) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), 
(a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 
percent), and (c). However, these requirements do not apply after the 
PMN substance is adhered onto film or incorporated into prepreg form 
(resin impregnated substrate).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), 
(g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5) during 
manufacture.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(l).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).

[[Page 322]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[62 FR 42692, Aug. 8, 1997]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3780  Substituted and disubstituted tetrafluoro alkenes
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted and disubstituted tetrafluoro alkene (PMN P-84-105) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.
    (i) The significant new uses are:
    (A) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b) 
(concentration set at 1%), and (c).
    (B) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b)(2), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1%), (f), (g)(1)(i), 
(g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(2)(v). In 
addition, the precautionary statements described under Sec. 721.72(g) 
shall include: This substance may cause eye irritation.
    (C) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (A) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a) through (g) and (i).
    (B) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (2) The chemical substance identified generically as disubstituted 
tetrafluoro alkene (PMN P-84-106) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.
    (i) The significant new uses are:
    (A) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b) 
(concentration set at 1%), and (c).
    (B) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b)(2), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1%), (f), (g)(1)(i), 
(g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(v), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(2)(v). 
In addition, the precautionary statements described under Sec. 
721.72(g) shall include: This substance may cause eye irritation.
    (C) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (A) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a) through (g) and (i).
    (B) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) The chemical substance identified generically as disubstituted 
tetrafluoro alkene (PMN P-84-107) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of 
this section.
    (i) The significant new uses are:
    (A) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b) 
(concentration set at 1%), and (c).
    (B) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b)(2), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1%), (f), (g)(1)(iv), 
(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(2)(v). In addition, the 
precautionary statements described under Sec. 721.72(g) shall include: 
This substance may cause eye irritation.
    (C) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (A) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable

[[Page 323]]

to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance: Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (g) and (i).
    (B) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[67 FR 17649, Apr. 11, 2002]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3790  Polyfluorocarboxylates.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
polyfluorocarboxylates (PMNs P-94-322 and P-94-323) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements specified 
in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 11043, Mar. 1, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3800  Formaldehyde, condensated polyoxyethylene fatty acid,
ester with styrenated phenol, ethylene oxide adduct.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
formaldehyde, condensated polyoxyethylene fatty acid, ester with 
styrenated phenol, ethylene oxide adduct (PMN P-90-360) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(ii), and (g)(5).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4) and (c)(4) (where N = 400 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 44066, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3805  Formaldehyde, reaction products with 1,
3-benzenedimethanamine and bisphenol A.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as formaldehyde, 
reaction products with 1,3-benzenedimethanamine and bisphenol A (PMN P-
00-0738; CAS No. 259871-68-6) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15084, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3807  Formaldehyde, polymer with phenol and 1,2,3-
propanetriol, methylated.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as formaldehyde, 
polymer with phenol and 1,2,3-propanetriol, methylated (PMN P-99-0044; 
CAS No. 209810-57-1) is subject to reporting under this section for the

[[Page 324]]

significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 3 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15084, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3810  Formaldehyde, polymers with substituted phenols
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
Formaldehyde, polymers with substituted phenols (PMN P-99-0558) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[65 FR 81400, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3812  Substituted phenols and formaldehyde polymer, alkylated
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted phenols and formaldehyde polymer, alkylated (PMN P-00-0542) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (a resin for can and tube coatings).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15084, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3815  Furan, 2-(ethoxymethyl)- tetrahydro-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance furan, 2-(ethoxymethyl) 
tetrahydro- (P-93-721) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If, as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a Material 
Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days 
from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If this 
substance is not being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in

[[Page 325]]

the employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to 
an MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive, or who 
have received this substance from the employer within 5 years from the 
date the employer becomes aware of the new information described in 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, are provided an MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing the information required under 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the 
employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[60 FR 11043, Mar. 1, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3818  Furan, octafluorotetrahydro-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as furan, 
octafluorotetrahydro- (PMN P-99-0965; CAS No. 773-14-8) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (a heat transfer agent).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15084, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3820  L-Glutamic acid, N-(1-oxododecyl)-, disodium salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as L-Glutamic acid, N-
(1-oxododecyl)-, disodium salt (PMN P-99-0207; CAS No. 50622-20-3) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[65 FR 81400, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3821  L-Glutamic acid, N-(1-oxododecyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as L-Glutamic acid, N-
(1-oxododecyl)- (PMN P-99-0208; CAS No. 3397-65-7) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 326]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[65 FR 81400, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3830  Phenol, 2-[[[3-(dimethylamino) propyl]amino]methyl]-6-
methyl-, 4-polybutene derivs.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phenol, 2-[[[3-
(dimethylamino)propyl] amino]methyl]-6- methyl-, 4-polybutene derivs. 
(PMN P-99-0531; CAS No. 1078715-83-9) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[65 FR 81400, Dec. 26, 2000, as amended at 79 FR 34637, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3835  Chloroformate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
chloroformate (PMN P-01-1) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Releases to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70177, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3840  Tetraglycidalamines (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
tetraglycidalamines (PMN P-86-500 and P-86-502) are subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5) (vi), 
(a)(6)(i), (a)(5)(xi) and (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c). The respirator required under Sec. 721.63 (a)(5)(vi) 
is applicable only when the PMN substance is in the form of a dust. The 
respirator required under Sec. 721.63 (a)(5)(xi) is applicable only 
when the PMN substance is in the form of a mist.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), (f), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), 
(g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (o).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2) and (c)(1), (c)(2).
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(2)(vi), (b)(2)(vi) and (c)(2)(vi).

[[Page 327]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 26101, June 26, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3845  Alkyl substituted aromatic glycidyl ether (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkyl 
substituted aromatic glycidyl ether (PMN P-97-661) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1) and (a)(3).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), 
(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), (g) (4) (iii), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c),(d),(e), (f), (g), (h),(i), and (k) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[65 FR 369, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3848  Glycine, N-(carboxymethyl)-N-dodecyl-, monosodium salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as glycine, N-
(carboxymethyl)-N-dodecyl-, monosodium salt (PMN P-00-469; CAS No. 
141321-68-8) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), (c)(4) (N = 30 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15084, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3860  Glycol monobenzoate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as generically as 
glycol monobenzoate (P-90-1357) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the employer 
must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods 
for protecting against such risk, into an MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the 
new information. If this substance

[[Page 328]]

is not being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the 
employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to an 
MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who have received, or will 
receive, this substance from the employer are provided an MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing the information required under 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes 
aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (h), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 40211, Aug. 13, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 46729, Sept. 16, 1991. 
Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 
23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3880  Polyalkylene glycol substituted acetate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyalkylene glycol substituted acetate (PMN P-91-1269) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance may present a risk of injury to the environment, the employer 
must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods 
for protecting against such risk, into an MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the 
new information. If this substance is not being manufactured, imported, 
processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add 
the new information to an MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into 
the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive this 
substance from the employer, or who have received this substance from 
the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of 
this new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this 
section, are provided an MSDS as described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing 
the information required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section 
within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the new 
information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44066, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.3900  Alkyl polyethylene glycol phosphate, potassium salt.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkyl 
polyethylene glycol phosphate, potassium salt (P-90-481), is subject to 
reporting under this section

[[Page 329]]

for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows.
    (A) If, as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the employer 
must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods 
for protecting against such risk, into a Material Safety Data Sheet 
(MSDS) as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the 
employer becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not 
being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the employer's 
workplace, the employer must add the new information to an MSDS before 
the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who have received, or will 
receive, this substance from the employer are provided an MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing the information required under 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. The following recordkeeping 
requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors 
of this substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (c), (h), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 15792, Apr. 17, 1991; 56 FR 29903, July 1, 1991. Redesignated and 
amended at 58 FR 29946, 29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4000  Polyoxy alkylene glycol amine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as polyoxy 
alkylene glycol amine (PMN P-91-1372) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified at Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements as 
specified at Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 31968, July 20, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4040  Glycols, polyethylene-, 3-sulfo-2-hydroxypropyl-p-
(1,1,3,3-tetra methylbutyl)phenyl ether, sodium salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as glycols, 
polyethylene-, 3-sulfo-2-hydroxypropyl-p-(1,1,3,3-tetramethyl 
butyl)phenyl ether, sodium salt (P-90-1565) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:

[[Page 330]]

    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into an MSDS as 
described at Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not being 
manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, 
the employer must add the new information to an MSDS before the 
substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who have received, or will 
receive, this substance from the employer are provided an MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing the information required under 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes 
aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (volume set at 1,115,000 kg).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (h), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[56 FR 40212, Aug. 13, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 46729, Sept. 16, 1991. 
Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4060  Alkylene glycol tereph tha late and substituted benzoate
esters (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkylene 
glycol terephthalate and substituted benzoate esters (PMN P-89-596) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(q)
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c) and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 26101, June 26, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4080  MNNG (N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance MNNG (N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine) 
(CAS No. 70-25-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Manufacture, import, or processing 
of 10,000 pounds or more per year per facility for any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), and (c).
    (2) [Reserved]

[58 FR 63517, Dec. 1, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4085  Guanidine, pentaethyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as guanidine, 
pentaethyl- (PMN P-94-1018; CAS No. 13439-89-9) is subject to reporting

[[Page 331]]

under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), and (a)(3).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3427, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4090  Ethanaminium, N-[bis(diethylamino)-methylene]-N-ethyl-,
bromide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as ethanaminium, N-
[bis(diethylamino)-methylene]-N-ethyl-, bromide (PMN P-94-1019; CAS No. 
89610-32-2) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3427, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4095  Quaternary ammonium alkyltherpropyl trialkylamine 
halides.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
quaternary ammonium alkyltherpropyl trialkylamine halides (PMNs P-96-
1280/81/1504/1505/1506/1507/1508) are subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3428, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4096  Substituted anilino halobenzamide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted anilino halobenzamide (PMN P-99-1288) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70177, Dec. 17, 2003]

[[Page 332]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4097  7-Oxabicyclo[4.1.0]heptane-3-carboxylic acid,
methyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 7-
oxabicyclo[4.1.0]heptane-3-carboxylic acid, methyl ester (PMN P-98-101) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44578, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4098  Substituted heteroaromatic-2[[4-(dimethylamino)
phenyl]azo]-3-methyl-, salts (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
substituted heteroaromatic-2[[4-(dimethylamino)phenyl]azo]-3-methyl-, 
salts (PMNs P-97-582 and P-97-583) are subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44578, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4100  Tris(disubstituted alkyl) het er o cy cle.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
tris(disubstituted alkyl) heterocycle (P-90-142) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent) and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(5). The hazard 
communication requirements do not apply when the chemical substance is 
present in a plastic, an elastomer, a rubber matrix, or in a solution.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q). Any amount of the PMN substance 
imported in a plastic, an elastomer, a rubber matrix, or in a solution, 
such that inhalation is precluded, shall not be included in the 
production limit calculations.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), 
(h), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 40212, Aug. 13, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]

[[Page 333]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4105  Bicyclo[2.2.1]hept-2-ene, 5-butyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as Bicyclo[2.2.1]hept-
2-ene, 5-butyl- (PMN P-98-315; CAS No. 22094-81-1) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 369, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4106  Bicyclo[2.2.1]hept-2-ene, 5-hexyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as Bicyclo[2.2.1]hept-
2-ene, 5-hexyl- (PMN P-98-316; CAS No. 22094-83-3) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 370, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4107  Bicyclo[2.2.1]hept-2-ene, 5-octyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as Bicyclo[2.2.1]hept-
2-ene, 5-octyl- (PMN P-98-317; CAS No. 22094-84-4) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 370, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4108  Bicyclo[2.2.1]hept-2-ene, 5-decyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified Bicyclo[2.2.1]hept-2-
ene, 5-decyl- (PMN P-98-318; CAS No. 22094-85-5) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 370, Jan. 5, 2000]

[[Page 334]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4110  Allyloxysubstituted heterocycle.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an 
allyloxysubstituted heterocycle (PMN P-93-1471) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 70 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements specified 
in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 11043, Mar. 1, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4128  Dimethyl-3-substituted heteromonocycle.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
dimethyl-3-substituted heteromonocycle (PMN No. P-91-1322) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(6)(ii), 
(a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), 
(g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (g) and (q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (d) through (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 32238, June 8, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4133  Dimethyl-3-substituted heteromonocyclic amine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
dimethyl-3-substituted heteromonocycle (PMN No. P-91-1323) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3), 
(a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 
percent).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), 
(g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (g) and (q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (d) through (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[[Page 335]]

    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 32238, June 8, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4136  Alkyl heteropolycyclic-aniline (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkyl 
heteropolycyclic-aniline (PMN P-00-0067) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15084, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4140  Hexachloronorbornadiene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance 1,2,3,4,7,7-
hexachloronorbornadiene, CAS Number 3389-71-7, is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Use other than as an intermediate in 
the production of isodrin or endrin.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Definitions. In addition to the definitions in Sec. 721.3, the 
following definitions apply:
    (i) ``Endrin'' means the pesticide 2,7:3,6-Dimethanonaphth[2,3-
b]oxirene, 3,4,5,6,9,9-hexachloro-1a,2,2a,3,6,6a,7,7a-octahydro-, (1a 
alpha, 2beta,2abeta,3alpha,6alpha,6abeta, 7beta,7aalpha)-, CAS Number 
72-20-8.
    (ii) ``Isodrin'' means the pesticide 1,4:5,8-Dimethano-
naphthalene,1,2,3,4,10,10-hexachloro-1,4,4a,5,8,8a-hexahydro-, (1alpha, 
4alpha, 4abeta, 5beta, 8beta, 8abeta)-, CAS Number 465-73-6.
    (2) [Reserved]

[50 FR 47538, Nov. 19, 1985. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. 
Further redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 
34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4155  Hexachloropropene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance hexachloropropene (CAS No. 1888-71-7) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Manufacture, import, or processing 
of 10,000 pounds or more per year per facility for any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), and (c).
    (2) [Reserved]

[58 FR 63517, Dec. 1, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4158  Hexadecanoic acid, ethenyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as hexadecanoic acid, 
ethenyl ester (PMN P-97-302; CAS No. 693-38-9) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(2)(i) and (a)(3).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (f) and (j).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 336]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3428, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4160  Hexafluoropropylene oxide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance hexafluoropropylene oxide (HFPO), CAS Number 
428-59-1 [Listed in TSCA Inventory as oxirane, tri fluor o(tri fluor o 
methyl)-] is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is any use other than as an intermediate 
in the manufacture of fluorinated substances in an enclosed process.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Definitions. In addition to the definitions in Sec. 721.3, the 
following definitions apply to this section:
    (i) Enclosed process means a process that is designed and operated 
so that there is no intentional release of any substance present in the 
process. A process with fugitive, inadvertent, or emergency relief 
releases remains an enclosed process so long as measures are taken to 
prevent worker exposure to and environmental contamination from the 
releases.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (2) [Reserved]

[52 FR 41300, Oct. 27, 1987. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. 
Further redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 
34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4180  Hexamethylphosphoramide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance hex a methyl phos phomide, CAS 
Number 680-31-9, is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Any use.
    (b) Special provisions. The provisions of subpart A of the part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Persons who must report. Section 721.5 applies to this section 
except for Sec. 721.5(a)(2). A person who intends to manufacture, 
import, or process for commercial purposes the substance identified in 
paragraph (a)(1) of this section and intends to distribute the substance 
in commerce must submit a signficant new use notice.
    (2) [Reserved]

[51 FR 9453, Mar. 19, 1986. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. 
Further redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 
34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4215  Hexanedioic acid, diethenyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as hexanedioic acid, 
diethenyl ester (PMN P-90-1564) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section. The requirements of this section do not apply once the 
substance has been incorporated into a polymer matrix with the level of 
residual monomer below 0.1 percent.
    (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Protection in the workplace. 
Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (There must 
be no permeation of the PMN substance greater than 0.05 [micro]g/min 
[middot] cm\2\ after 8 hours of testing in accordance with the most 
current version of the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) 
F739 ``Standard Test Method for Resistance of Protective Clothing 
Materials to Permeation by Liquids or Gases.'' For conditions of 
exposure which are intermittent, gloves may be tested in accordance with 
the most current version of ASTM F1383 ``Standard Test Method for 
Resistance of Protective Clothing Materials to Permeation by Liquids or 
Gases Under Conditions of Intermittent Contact,'' provided the contact 
time in testing is greater than or equal to the expected duration of 
dermal contact, and the purge time used in testing is less than or equal 
to the expected duration of noncontact during

[[Page 337]]

the intermittent cycle of dermal exposure in the workplace. If ASTM 
F1383 is used for testing, manufacturers, importers, and processors must 
submit to the Agency a description of worker activities involving the 
PMN substance which includes daily frequencies and durations of 
potential worker exposures. The results of all glove permeation testing 
must be reported in accordance with the most current version of ASTM 
F1194 ``Guide for Documenting the Results of Chemical Permeation Testing 
of Protective Clothing Materials.'' Manufacturers, importers, and 
processors must submit all test data to the Agency and must receive 
written Agency approval for each type of glove tested prior to use of 
such gloves. The following gloves have been tested in accordance with 
the ASTM F739 method and found by EPA to satisfy the requirements for 
continuous use: North/B-161-R/Butyl rubber gloves (These gloves are 
acceptable for the solid form of the substance only.), 0.04 cm thick; 
and Ansell Edmont/4H/PE/EVOH/PE Laminate gloves, 0.006 cm thick. (Gloves 
may not be used for a time period longer than they are actually tested 
and must be replaced at the end of each work shift.), (a)(2)(ii) (With 
the exception of laboratory activities, full body chemical protective 
clothing is required for any worker activity in which the substance is 
reasonably likely to contact the worker in the following state(s): Open 
liquid pool or solid of greater than 5 kg; liquid spray or splash; mist; 
aerosol dust; or any worker activity which have potential for contact 
with the PMN chemical for more than 10 min/h. At a minimum, a chemical 
protective apron is required for any worker activity with potential for 
contact with the PMN chemical which is not covered by this paragraph)), 
(a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii) (if cartridge service life 
testing is not available), (a)(5)(xii) or (a)(5)(xiii) (if data on 
cartridge service life testing has been reviewed and approved in writing 
by EPA), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), and (a)(6)(v). As an 
alternative to the respiratory requirements in this section, 
manufacturers, importers, and processors may use the New Chemical 
Exposure Limits provisions, including sampling and analytical methods 
which have previously been approved by EPA for this substance, found in 
the 5(e) consent order for this substance.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (h)(1)(vi) (The following additional statements shall appear on 
each label required by this paragraph: The health effects of this 
material have not been fully determined but are currently being tested. 
EPA is concerned however, that this material may have serious chronic 
health and environmental effects. When using this material, use eye and 
skin protection, which includes gloves which have been determined to be 
impervious to this substance. Use respiratory protection, unless 
workplace airborne concentrations are maintained at or below an 8-h time 
weighted average (TWA) of 1 ppm, when there is a likelihood of exposure 
in the work area from dust, mist, smoke or vapors.), (h)(2)(ii)(F), 
(h)(2)(ii)(G), (h)(2)(ii)(I), (h)(2)(iii)(A), (h)(2)(iii)(B), 
(h)(2)(iii)(C), (h)(2)(iii)(E), (h)(2)(iv)(A), (h)(2)(iv)(B). The 
following additional statements shall appear on each MSDS required by 
this paragraph: This substance may cause moderate skin irritation. This 
substance may cause neurotoxicity. When using this substance, use 
respiratory protection, unless workplace airborne concentrations are 
maintained at or below an 8-h TWA of 1 ppm.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 80 ppb). When calculating the 
surface water concentrations according to the instructions in Sec. 
721.91(a)(4), the statement that the amount of the substance that will 
be released will be calculated before the substance enters control 
technology does not apply. Instead, if the waste stream containing the 
substance will be treated before release, then the amount of the 
substance reasonably likely to be removed from the waste stream by such 
treatment may be subtracted in calculating the number of kilograms 
released. No more than 75

[[Page 338]]

percent removal efficiency may be attributed to such treatment. In 
addition, when the substance is released in combination with the 
substances hexanoic acid, 2-ethyl-, ethenyl ester, neononanoic acid, 
ethenyl ester, and propanoic acid, 2,2-dimethyl-, ethenyl ester, the 
quotient from the formula referenced in this section shall not exceed 
the average of the quotient applicable to the other substances weighted 
by the proportion of each substance present in the total daily amount 
released.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance. Manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of the substance must document that the PMN substance has 
been incorporated into a polymer matrix with the level of residual 
monomer below 0.1 percent if this section does not apply as described in 
paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 51703, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4250  Hexanoic acid, 2-ethyl-, ethenyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as hexanoic acid, 2-
ethyl-, ethenyl ester (PMN P-91-826) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section. The requirements of this section do not apply once the 
substance has been incorporated into a polymer matrix with the level of 
residual monomer below 0.1 percent.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i) (There must be no permeation of the substance 
greater than 0.02 [micro]g/min [middot] cm\2\ after 8 hours of testing 
in accordance with the most current version of the American Society for 
Testing and Materials (ASTM) F739 ``Standard Test Method for Resistance 
of Protective Clothing Materials to Permeation by Liquids or Gases.'' 
For conditions of exposure which are intermittent, gloves may be tested 
in accordance with the most current version of ASTM F1383 ``Standard 
Test Method for Resistance of Protective Clothing Materials to 
Permeation by Liquids or Gases Under Conditions of Intermittent 
Contact,'' provided the contact time in testing is greater than or equal 
to the expected duration of dermal contact, and the purge time used in 
testing is less than or equal to the expected duration of noncontact 
during the intermittent cycle of dermal exposure in the workplace. If 
ASTM F1383 is used for testing, manufacturers, importers, and processors 
must submit to the Agency a description of worker activities involving 
the substance which includes daily frequencies and durations of 
potential worker exposures. The results of all glove permeation testing 
must be reported in accordance with the most current version of ASTM 
F1194 ``Guide for Documenting the Results of Chemical Permeation Testing 
of Protective Clothing Materials.'' Manufacturers, importers, and 
processors must submit all test data to the Agency and must receive 
written Agency approval for each type of glove tested prior to use of 
such gloves. The following gloves have been tested in accordance with 
the ASTM F739 method and found by EPA to satisfy the requirements for 
continuous use: North/F101/Vitron gloves, 0.03 cm thick; and Ansell/
Edmont/4H/PE/EVOH/PE Laminate gloves, 0.006 cm thick.(Gloves may not be 
used for a time period longer than they are actually tested and must be 
replaced at the end of each work shift.), (a)(2)(ii) (With the exception 
of laboratory activities, full body chemical protective clothing is 
required for any worker activity in which the substance is reasonably 
likely to contact the worker in the following state(s): Open liquid pool 
or solid of greater than 5 kg; liquid spray or splash; mist; aerosol 
dust; or any worker activity which have potential for contact with the 
PMN chemical for more than 10

[[Page 339]]

min/h. At a minimum, a chemical protective apron is required for any 
worker activity with potential for contact with the PMN chemical which 
is not covered by this paragraph), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4), 
(a)(5)(iii) (if cartridge service life testing is not available), 
(a)(5)(xii) or (a)(5)(xiii) (if data on cartridge service life testing 
has been reviewed and approved in writing by EPA), (a)(6)(i), 
(a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), and (a)(6)(v). As an alternative to the 
respiratory requirements in this section, manufacturers, importers, and 
processors may use the New Chemical Exposure Limits provisions, 
including sampling and analytical methods which have previously been 
approved by EPA for this substance, found in the 5(e) consent order for 
this substance.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (h)(1)(vi) (The following additional statements shall appear on 
each label required by this paragraph: The health effects of this 
material have not been fully determined but are currently being tested. 
EPA is concerned however, that this material may have serious chronic 
health and environmental effects. When using this material, use eye and 
skin protection, which includes gloves which have been determined to be 
impervious to this substance. Use respiratory protection, unless 
workplace airborne concentrations are maintained at or below an 8-h time 
weighted average (TWA) of 1 ppm, when there is a likelihood of exposure 
in the work area from dust, mist, smoke or vapors.), (h)(2)(ii)(F), 
(h)(2)(ii)(G), (h)(2)(ii)(I), (h)(2)(iii)(A), (h)(2)(iii)(B), 
(h)(2)(iii)(C), (h)(2)(iii)(E), (h)(2)(iv)(A), (h)(2)(iv)(B). The 
following additional statements shall appear on each MSDS required by 
this paragraph: This substance may cause moderate skin irritation. This 
substance may cause neurotoxicity. When using this substance, use 
respiratory protection, unless workplace airborne concentrations are 
maintained at or below an 8-h TWA of 1 ppm.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 7 ppb). When calculating the 
surface water concentrations according to the instructions in Sec. 
721.91(a)(4), the statement that the amount of the substance that will 
be released will be calculated before the substance enters control 
technology does not apply. Instead, if the waste stream containing the 
substance will be treated before release, then the amount of the 
substance reasonably likely to be removed from the waste stream by such 
treatment may be subtracted in calculating the number of kilograms 
released. No more than 75 percent removal efficiency may be attributed 
to such treatment. In addition, when the substance is released in 
combination with the substances hexanedioic acid, diethenyl ester, 
neononanoic acid, ethenyl ester, and propanoic acid, 2,2-dimethyl-, 
ethenyl ester, the quotient from the formula referenced in this section 
shall not exceed the average of the quotient applicable to the other 
substances weighted by the proportion of each substance present in the 
total daily amount released.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance. Manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of the substance must document that the substance has 
been incorporated into a polymer matrix with the level of residual 
monomer below 0.1 percent if this section does not apply as described in 
paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 51704, Oct. 4, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 68311, Dec. 27, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4255  1,4,7,10,13,16-Hexaoxacyclooctadecane, 2-[(2-propenyl
oxy)methyl]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 340]]

chemical substance 1,4,7,10,13,16-hexaoxacyclooctadecane, 2-[(2-
propenyloxy)methyl]- (PMN P-93-1208, CAS no. 84812-04-4) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[59 FR 27484, May 27, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4257  Hydrazine, (2-fluorophenyl).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as hydrazine, (2-
fluorophenyl) (PMN P-95-2101; CAS No. 2368-80-1) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3428, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4258  Substituted naphthalene hydrazide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted naphthalene hydrazide (PMN P-01-69) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirement as specified Sec. 721.90(a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70177, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4259  Aliphatic polyisocyanate homopolymer.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an 
aliphatic polyisocyanate homopolymer (PMN P-96-1239) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3428, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4260  Hydrazine, [4-(1-methyl bu toxy)phenyl]-,
monohydrochloride.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 341]]

chemical substance identified as hydrazine, [4-(1-methylbutoxy)phenyl]-, 
monohydrochloride (PMN P-90-558; CAS number 124993-63-1) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), 
(a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5). 
In addition, the following human health hazard statement shall appear on 
each label and MSDS required by this section: This substance may cause 
eye irritation.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (l) and (p) (production limit set at 15,500 
kg).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Modification or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 44066, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4265  Hydrazinecarboxamide, N-(3,5-difluorophenyl-).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 
hydrazinecarboxamide, N-(3,5-difluorophenyl-) (PMN P-97-649; CAS No. 
167412-23-9) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1) (applies only when the substance is in a solution), 
(a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c). As an alternative to the respiratory requirements 
listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow 
the NCEL provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for 
this substance. The NCEL is set at 0.4 mg/m\3\.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(v), (g)(1)(vii), 
(g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i) (applies only when the substance is in a solvent), 
(g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v) (applies only when the 
substance is in a solvent), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (g) and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[65 FR 370, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4270  Nitrophenoxylalkanoic acid substituted thiazino
hydrazide (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance nitrophenoxylalkanoic acid 
substituted thiazino hydrazide (PMN P-88-270) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv) through (a)(5)(vii), 
(a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).

[[Page 342]]

    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f) 
and (g)(1)(iv) (also acute toxicity), (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(v), 
(g)(4)(i) and (g)(5). The provision of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring that 
employees to be provided with information on the location and 
availability of a written hazard communication program does not apply 
when the written program is not required under Sec. 721.72(a).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g) (industrial intermediates only).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1) and (c)(2).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (j).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 32415, Aug. 9, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4280  Substituted hydrazine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted hydrazine (PMN P-90-594) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration 
set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2), (g)(3), (g)(4)(i), (g)(4)(iii), 
and (g)(5). In addition, the human health hazard statement shall include 
mutagenicity.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(l).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[56 FR 40213, Aug. 13, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4300  Hydrazinecarboxamide, N,N'-1,6-hexanediylbis
[2,2-dimethyl-].

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 
hydrazinecarboxamide, N,N'-1,6-hex ane diyl bis [2,2-dimethyl- (P-87-
1192)] is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), 
(a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 
0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set a 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(3), and 
(g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (k) (any application which, if there 
are releases to water or discharges to land, will not result in releases 
to facilities with a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System 
permit), and (l).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(b)(4), (c)(4), (where N = 30).

[[Page 343]]

    (A) Selling or transferring the substance to any person for use 
where the substance is released to surface waters without notifying in 
writing the parties listed in subparagraph (B) of the identities of all 
such persons. Such notification shall be sent within 15 days of the date 
of the first sale or transfer and shall contain the following 
information:
    (1) The name and address (including shipment destination address, if 
different) of the person to whom the substance is sold or transferred.
    (2) The date on which sale or transfer commenced.
    (3) The chemical identity of the substance.
    (4) The name of the stream or river into which the specific buyer or 
transferee is expected to discharge the substance.
    (5) Notification that the substance is subject to a Significant New 
Use Rule issued under section 5 of the Toxic Substances Control Act.
    (6) A summary of the water release restrictions contained in 
paragraph (a)(iv) of this section.
    (7) A request that the party notify the following office of any 
information which indicates that the in-stream concentration of the PMN 
substance specified in paragraph (a)(iv) of this section has been 
exceeded: Chief, New Chemicals Branch, Chemical Control Division (7405), 
Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency, Room E-447, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460.
    (B) The parties to be notified are as follows.
    (1) The Director, Water Management Division (or, in the case of 
Regions 5 and 10, Water Division) at the headquarters of the EPA region 
in which the specific buyer or transferee is located.
    (2) The Agency, Department, or Office of the State or U.S. Territory 
with jurisdiction over point source water discharges in the State or 
Territory in which the specific buyer or transferee is located (EPA is 
available for consultation regarding the identity and address of the 
appropriate Agency, etc.)
    (3) The Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW) authority, if any, 
expected to receive the discharge of the PMN substance from the specific 
buyer or transferee.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. The following recordkeeping 
requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors 
of this substance as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), 
(g), (h), (i), and records documenting notification to parties 
identified in Sec. 721.90.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 15792, Apr. 17, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 60 FR 34464, July 3, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4320  Hydrazinecarboxamide, N,N'-(methylenedi-4,1-phenylene)
bis [2,2-dimethyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance hydrazinecarboxamide, N,N'-
(methylenedi-4,1-phenylene)bis[2,2-dimethyl- (PMN P-88-522) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(viii) through (a)(5)(xiv), 
(a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b)(2), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(iv) (and blood effects), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), 
(g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5). The provisions of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring 
employees to be provided with information on the location and 
availability of a written hazard communication program and MSDSs do not 
apply when the written program and MSDS are not required under Sec. 
721.72 (a) and (c), respectively.

[[Page 344]]

The provision of Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific 
information on an MSDS does not apply when an MSDS is not required under 
Sec. 721.72(c).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (f) and (l).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(b)(1) and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (e), (f), (g), 
(h), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 46773, Nov. 6, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4340  Substituted thiazino hydrazine salt (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance substituted thiazino hydrazine 
salt (PMN P-88-63) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii) through (a)(5)(vii), and 
(a)(6)(i), (b) [concentration set at 0.1 percent], and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) [concentration set at 0.1 
percent], (f), and (g)(1)(iv) and (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(iv), and (g)(2)(v), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (g) and (l).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1) and 
(a)(2) and (b)(1) and (b)(2).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 26112, June 26, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4360  Certain hydrogen containing chlorofluorocarbons.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting.
    (1) The chemical substances ethane, 2-chloro-1,1,1-trifluoro- (CAS 
Number 75-88-7) and ethane, 1,2-dichloro-1,1-difluoro- (CAS Number 1649-
08-7) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Use other than as an intermediate.
    (b) [Reserved]

[55 FR 35632, Aug. 31, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4365  Substituted ethoxylated hydrocarbon (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
Substituted ethoxylated hydrocarbon (PMN P-99-0313) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90 (a)(4), 
(b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.

[[Page 345]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81400, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4380  Modified hydrocarbon resin.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
modified hydrocarbon resin (P-91-1418) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the employer 
must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods 
for protecting against such risk, into an MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the 
new information. If this substance is not being manufactured, imported, 
processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add 
the new information to an MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into 
the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive this 
substance from the employer, or who have received the substance from the 
employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of the 
information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, are 
provided an MSDS as described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing the 
information required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 
90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44067, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4385  Hydrofluoric acid, reaction products with heptane.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as a hydrofluoric acid, 
reaction products with heptane (PMN P-98-1036; CAS No. 207409-71-0) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 370, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4390  Trisubstituted hydroquinone diester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
trisubstituted hydroquinone diester (PMN No. P-92-329) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 346]]

    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and 
(g)(5).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4) (where N = 30 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (j), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[58 FR 32239, June 8, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4420  Substituted hydroxylamine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted hydroxylamine (PMN P-84-492) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communicatiom program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b)(2), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(vii), and (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(iii). The provisions of Sec. 
721.72(d) requiring employees to be provided with information on the 
location and availability of a written hazard communication program and 
MSDSs do not apply when the written program and MSDS are not required 
under Sec. 721.72 (a), and (c), respectively. The provision of Sec. 
721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information on an MSDS does 
not apply when an MSDS is not required under Sec. 721.72(c).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4) (chemically treated liquid wastes must contain no more than 10 
ppm of the substance prior to discharge), (b)(4) (chemically treated 
liquid wastes must contain no more than 10 ppm of the substance prior to 
discharge), and (c)(4) (chemically treated liquid wastes must contain no 
more than 10 ppm of the substance prior to discharge).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (e), (f), and 
(j).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 46773, Nov. 6, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 
24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4460  Amidinothiopropionic acid hydrochloride.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
amidinothiopropionic acid hydrochloride (PMN P-91-102) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 46466, Oct. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]

[[Page 347]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4461  Hydrofluoric acid, reaction products with octane
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
hydrofluoric acid, reaction products with octane (PMN P-99-0052) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81400, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4462  Hydrochlorofluorocarbon.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
hydrochlorofluorocarbon (PMN P-95-1317) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3428, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4463  Hydrochlorofluorocarbon.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
hydrochlorofluorocarbon (PMN P-94-1453) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 45082, Aug. 30, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4464  Mixture of hydrofluoro alkanes and hydrofluoro alkene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as a 
mixture of hydrofluoro alkanes and hydrofluoro alkene (PMNs P-96-945/
946/947/948) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements specified as in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3428, Jan. 22, 1998]

[[Page 348]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4465  Hydrofluoroalkane.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
hydrofluoroalkane (PMN P-96-1288) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(h).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3428, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4467  Quaternary ammonium hydroxide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
quaternary ammonium hydroxide (PMN P-95-1806) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3429, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4468  1H-Imidazole, 2-ethyl-4,5-dihydro-4-methyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1H-imidazole, 2-
ethyl-4,5-dihydro-4-methyl- (PMN P-97-217; CAS No. 931-35-1) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 40).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3429, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4469  Imidazolethione.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an 
imidazolethione (PMNs P-91-1131 and P-90-564) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section. Formulations or mixtures containing the PMN 
substance in concentrations at or below 10 percent by weight or volume 
are exempt from the provisions of this rule.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). The label and MSDS as 
required by this paragraph

[[Page 349]]

shall also include the following statements: This substance may cause 
thyroid cancer. This substance may cause thyroid effects.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3429, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4470  2,4-Imidazolidinedione, bromochloro-5,5-dimethyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance 2,4-imidazolidinedione, 
bromochloro-5,5-dimethyl- (PMN P-94-34) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(3), (w)(3), and (x)(3).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 10 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements specified 
in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 11043, Mar. 1, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4472  Phenyl, alkyl, hydroxyalkyl substituted imidazole
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as phenyl, 
alkyl, hydroxyalkyl substituted imidazole (PMNs P-98-843 and P-86-65) 
are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (b) 
(concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), and (g)(1)(iii).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(r) (56,000 kg) (acute oral study (OPPTS 
870.1100 test guideline) followed by a (90-day subchronic inhalation 
study in rats (40 CFR 799.9346). A person may not manufacture or import 
the substance beyond the aggregate production volume limit, unless that 
person conducts this study on the substance and submits all final 
reports and underlying data in accordance with the procedures and 
criteria specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(A), (a)(2)(iii)(B), 
(a)(2)(iii)(C), and (a)(2)(iii)(D) of this section.
    (A) Each study required to be performed pursuant to this section 
must be scientifically valid. Scientifically valid means that the study 
was conducted according to:
    (1) The test guidelines specified in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this 
section.
    (2) An EPA-approved protocol.
    (3) TSCA Good Laboratory Practice Standards at 40 CFR part 792.
    (4) Using methodologies generally accepted at the time the study is 
initiated.
    (5) Any deviation from these requirements must be approved in 
writing by EPA.
    (B) Before starting to conduct any of the studies in paragraph 
(a)(2)(iii) of this section, the person must obtain approval of test 
protocols from EPA by submitting written protocols. EPA will respond to 
the person within 4 weeks of receiving the written protocols. Published 
test guidelines specified in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section 
(e.g., 40 CFR part 797 or part 798) provide general guidance for 
development of test protocols, but are not themselves acceptable 
protocols.
    (C) The person shall:

[[Page 350]]

    (1) Conduct each study in good faith with due care.
    (2) Promptly furnish to EPA the results of any interim phase of each 
study.
    (3) Submit, in triplicate (with an additional sanitized copy, if 
confidential business information is involved), the final report of each 
study and all underlying data (``the report and data'') to EPA no later 
than 14 weeks prior to exceeding the applicable production volume limit. 
The final report shall contain the contents specified in 40 CFR 792.185.
    (D)(1) Except as described in paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(D)(2), if, 
within 6 weeks of EPA's receipt of a test report and data, the person 
receives written notice that EPA finds that the data generated by a 
study are scientifically invalid, the person is prohibited from further 
manufacture and import of the PMN substance beyond the applicable 
production volume limit.
    (2) The person may continue to manufacture and import the PMN 
substance beyond the applicable production limit only if so notified, in 
writing, by EPA in response to the person's compliance with either of 
the following paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(D)(2)(i) or (a)(2)(iii)(D)(2)(ii) 
of this section.
    (i) The person may reconduct the study. If there is sufficient time 
to reconduct the study and submit the report and data to EPA at least 14 
weeks before exceeding the production limit as required by paragraph 
(a)(2)(iii)(C)(3) of this section, the person shall comply with 
paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(C)(3) of this section. If there is insufficient 
time for the person to comply with paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(C)(3) of this 
section, the person may exceed the production limit and shall submit the 
report and data in triplicate to EPA within a reasonable period of time, 
all as specified by EPA in the notice described in paragraph 
(a)(2)(iii)(D)(1) of this section. EPA will respond to the person in 
writing, within 6 weeks of receiving the person's report and data.
    (ii) The person may, within 4 weeks of receiving from EPA the notice 
described in paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(D)(1) of this section, submit to EPA 
a written report refuting EPA's finding. EPA will respond to the person 
in writing, within 4 weeks of receiving the person's report.
    (E) The person is not required to conduct a study specified in 
paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section if notified in writing by EPA that 
it is unnecessary to conduct that study.
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 370, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4473  Dialkylamidoimidazoline.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 
dialkylamidoimidazoline (PMN P-94-1864) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(h).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 45082, Aug. 30, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4476  Substituted imines.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
substituted imines (PMNs P-

[[Page 351]]

95-1557/1558) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3429, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4480  2-Imino-1,3-thiazin-4-one-5,6-dihydromonohydrochloride.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-imino-1,3-thiazin-
4-one-5,6-dihydromonohydrochloride (PMN P-91-101) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (v)(1), (v)(2), (w)(1), (w)(2), (x)(1), 
and (x)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 46466, Oct. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4484  Halogenated indane (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
halogenated indane (PMN P-94-351) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to P-94-351 
after incorporation into a plastic, resin matrix, or pelletized so 
humans are not reasonally likely to be exposed.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements during manufacture as 
specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), 
(a)(5)(vi), (a)(5(vii), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements during manufacture 
as specified in Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g)(1)(vii), 
(g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[61 FR 63737, Dec. 2, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 27694, May 21, 1997]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4486  Propanoic acid, 2-methyl-, (1R,2R,4R)-1,7,7-
trimethylbicyclo[2.2.1]hept-2-yl ester, rel-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as propanoic acid, 2-
methyl-, (1R,2R,4R)-1,7,7-trimethylbicyclo[2.2.1]hept-2-yl ester, rel- 
(PMNs P-98-0497 and P-98-0509; CAS No. 85586-67-0) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 352]]

    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (15,000 kg/yr).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15084, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4490  Capped aliphatic isocyanate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a capped 
aliphatic isocyanate (PMN P-86-1146) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(xi), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration 
set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(h)(1)(ii)(G), (h)(1)(iii)(A), (h)(1)(iii)(B), (h)(1)(iii)(D), and 
(h)(1)(iii)(E).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(h).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b) through (g), (i), and (j) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51685, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4494  Polycyclic isocyanate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as a polycyclic 
isocyanate (PMN P-94-437) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), 
(a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(iv), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set 
at 1.0%), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), 
(g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5). In 
addition the following human health and environmental hazard and 
precautionary statements shall appear on each label as specified in 
paragraph (b) of this section and the MSDS as specified in paragraph (c) 
of this section: This substance may cause skin sensitization. This 
substance may cause pulmonary sensitization.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(3), (b)(3), and (c)(3).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[61 FR 63737, Dec. 2, 1996]

[[Page 353]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4497  Aliphatic polyisocyanates (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
aliphatic polyisocyanates (P-91-1210 and P-92-714) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Non-spray uses are exempt from the 
provisions of this rule.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), 
(a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(viii), (a)(5)(ix), (a)(5)(x), 
(a)(5)(xi), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), (b) (concentration set at 
1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), 
(g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). Manufacturers, importers, and 
processors who implement the product stewardship provisions of the 
section 5(e) consent order for these substances are exempt from the 
requirements of Sec. Sec. 721.63 and 721.72.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (h) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance. Manufacturers, importers, and processors 
who implement the product stewardship provisions or keep records as 
required by the section 5(e) consent order for these substances are 
exempt from the requirements of Sec. 721.125.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Applicability of Sec. 721.5. The provisions of Sec. 721.5 do 
not apply to manufacturers, importers, and processors, implementing the 
product stewardship provisions in the section 5(e) consent order for 
these substances.

[61 FR 63737, Dec. 2, 1996]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4500  Isopropylamine distillation residues and ethylamine
distillation residues.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new use subject to 
reporting. (1) The following chemical substances referred to by their 
Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) register numbers and chemical names are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section: CAS No. 79771-08-7, 
isopropylamine distillation residues, and CAS No. 79771-09-98, 
ethylamine distillation residues.
    (2) The significant new use is use in metalworking fluids.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Notice Requirements and Procedures. Section 721.10 applies to 
this section, except persons submitting a notice must complete only 
Parts I and III of the notice form.
    (2) [Reserved]

(Sec. 5, Pub. L. 94-469, 90 Stat. 2012 (15 U.S.C. 2604))

[49 FR 46378, Nov. 26, 1984. Redesignated at 51 FR 23539, June 30, 1986, 
and 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. Further redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 
24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4520  Isopropylidene, bis(1,1-dimethylpropyl) derivative.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as isopropylidene, 
bis(1,1-dimethylpropyl) derivative (PMN P-85-648) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3) (applies to gloves 
only), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), (f), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k).

[[Page 354]]

    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(2)(ii), (b)(2)(ii), and (c)(2)(ii).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44067, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4550  Diperoxy ketal.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as diperoxy 
ketal (PMN-92-1394) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Hazard communication program. 
Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), 
(g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 51705, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4565  Modified hydroxystyrene homopolymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as Modified 
hydroxystyrene homopolymer (PMN P-99-0610) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[65 FR 81401, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4568  Methylpolychloro aliphatic ketone.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
methylpolychloro aliphatic ketone (PMN No. P-91-1321) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(6)(ii), 
(a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). 
The employer is able to demonstrate that the gloves selected for 
handling P-91-1321 provide an impervious barrier to prevent dermal 
exposure during normal and expected duration and conditions of exposure 
within the work area by testing the material used to make the gloves and 
the construction of the gloves to establish that they will be impervious 
for the expected duration and conditions of exposure. The testing

[[Page 355]]

must subject the gloves to the expected conditions of exposure, 
including the likely combinations of chemical substances to which the 
gloves may be exposed in the work area. There must be no permeation of 
P-91-1321 greater than 0.017 mg/cm\2\/min after 8 h of testing in 
accordance with the most recent versions of the American Society for 
Testing and Materials (ASTM) F739 ``Standard Test Method for Resistance 
of Protective Clothing Materials to Permeation by Liquids or Gases'' and 
ASTM F1194 ``Guide for Documenting the Results of Chemical Permeation 
Testing of Protective Clothing Materials.'' The employer must submit all 
test data to the Agency and must receive written Agency approval of the 
test results for each type of glove tested prior to use of such gloves. 
Neoprene gloves with a minimum thickness of 1.50 mm have already been 
tested and found to satisfy the terms of this rule. Nitrile gloves with 
a minimum thickness of 0.61 mm also satisfy the terms of this rule, as 
long as the duration of exposure to P-91-1321 is less than 2 h per work 
shift. If the duration of exposure is longer than 2 h, nitrile gloves 
shall be discarded and replaced every 2 h. Unless otherwise indicated, 
gloves contaminated with P-91-1321 shall be disposed of after every work 
shift.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(v), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), 
(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (g) and (q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (d) through (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 32239, June 8, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4575  L-aspartic acid, N,N'- [(1E) - 1,2 - ethenediylbis
[(3-sulfo-4, 1-phenylene)imino [6-(phenylamino)-1,3,5-triazine- 
4,2- diyl]]]bis-, hexasodium salt.
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as l-aspartic acid, 
N,N'- [(1E) - 1,2 - ethenediylbis[(3-sulfo-4, 1-phenylene) imino[6-
(phenylamino)-1,3,5-triazine-4,2-diyl]]]bis-, hexasodium salt (PMN P-99-
1167; CAS No. 205764-98-3) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), (x)(1), and (f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15085, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4585  Lecithins, phospholipase A2-hydrolyzed.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
lecithins, phospholipase A2-hydrolyzed (PMN P-93-333) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(i), and (g)(3)(ii).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).

[[Page 356]]

    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 10 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[59 FR 27484, May 27, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4587  Lithium manganese oxide (LiMn204) (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as lithium 
manganese oxide (LiMn204) (P-96-175) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of these substances without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for these substances, the employer becomes aware that 
these substances may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a Material 
Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days 
from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If 
these substances are not being manufactured, imported, processed, or 
used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add the new 
information to an MSDS before the substances are reintroduced into the 
workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive, or who 
have received their substances from the employer within 5 years from the 
date the employer becomes aware of the new information described in 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, are provided an MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing the information required under 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the 
employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[61 FR 63738, Dec. 2, 1996]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4589  Propanedioic acid, [(4-methoxyphenyl)methylene]-,
bis(1,2,2,6,6-pentamethyl-4-piperdinyl) ester (9CI).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as propanedioic acid, 
[(4-methoxyphenyl)methylene]-, bis(1,2,2,6,6-pentamethyl-4-piperdinyl) 
ester (9CI) (PMN P-95-1411; CAS No. 147783-69-5) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.

[[Page 357]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3429, Jan. 22, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 12882, Mar. 20, 2002]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4590  Mannich-based adduct.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance generically identified as a 
Mannich-based adduct (PMN P-93-66) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Industrial, commercial, and 
consumer activities. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.80(h).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 8 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51705, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4594  Substituted azo metal complex dye.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted azo metal complex dye (PMN P-94-499) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements specified 
in Sec. 721.125 (a) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 11044, Mar. 1, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4596  Diazo substituted carbomonocyclic metal complex.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a diazo 
substituted carbomonocyclic metal complex (PMN P-94-1039) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements specified 
in Sec. 721.125 (a) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 11044, Mar. 1, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4600  Recovered metal hydroxide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
recovered metal hydroxide (PMN P-91-809) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance

[[Page 358]]

may present a risk of injury to the environment, the employer must 
incorporate this new information, and any information on methods for 
protecting against such risk, into an MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the 
new information. If this substance is not being manufactured, imported, 
processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add 
the new information to an MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into 
the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive this 
substance from the employer, or who have received this substance from 
the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of 
the new information described under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this 
section, are provided an MSDS as described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing 
the information required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section 
within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the new 
information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44067, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4610  Mixed metal oxides (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as mixed 
metal oxides (PMN P-98-0002) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c). As an alternative to the respiratory requirements 
listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow 
the NCEL provisions listed in the TSCA 5(e) consent order for this 
substance. The NCEL is 0.05 mg/m\3\ as an 8-hour time weighted average 
verified by actual monitoring data.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f) (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), and (g)(2)(iv).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), 
(h), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[65 FR 81401, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4620  Zinc, bis(N,N-dipropyl-.beta.-alaninato-.kappa.
N,.kappa.O)-, (T-4)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as zinc, bis(N,N-
dipropyl-.beta.-alaninato-.kappa.N,.kappa.O)-, (T-4)- (PMN P-90-274; CAS 
No. 135364-47-5) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with

[[Page 359]]

any use of this substance without providing risk notification as 
follows. (A) If, as a result of the test data required under the section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the 
employer must incorporate this new information, and any information on 
methods for protecting against such risk, into a Material Safety Data 
Sheet (MSDS) as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the 
time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If this 
substance is not being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the 
employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to an 
MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who have received, or will 
receive, this substance from the employer are provided an MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing the information required under 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the 
employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (production limit set at 573,300 kg).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. The following recordkeeping 
requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors 
of this substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (c), (h), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[56 FR 15789, Apr. 17, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 79 FR 34637, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4660  Alcohol, alkali metal salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance generically identified as alcohol, 
alkali metal salt (PMN P-91-151) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 5 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[56 FR 40213, Aug. 13, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4663  Fluorinated carboxylic acid alkali metal salts.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as fluorinated 
carboxylic acid alkali metal salts (PMNs P-95-979/980/981) are subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(2), (w)(2), and (x)(2).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4), (N = 100 ppb for P-95-979), (N = 30 ppb for 
P-95-980), and (N = 3 ppb for P-95-981).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[61 FR 63738, Dec. 2, 1996]

[[Page 360]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4668  Hydrated alkaline earth metal salts of metalloid 
oxyanions.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as hydrated alkaline 
earth metal salts of metalloid oxyanions (PMN P-94-1557) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), 
(a)(5)(vii), (a)(5)(viii), (a)(6)(i), (b), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(ix), 
(g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[61 FR 63738, Dec. 2, 1996]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4685  Substituted purine metal salt (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted purine metal salt (PMN P-95-175) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 8)
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[61 FR 63739, Dec. 2, 1996]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4700  Metalated alkylphenol copolymer (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance metalated alkylphenol copolymer 
(PMN P-87-723) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (b)(1)(i)(C), (b)(1)(ii), (b)(1)(iii), (b)(1)(iv), (b)(2), 
(c)(1), (f), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (industrial coating material).
    (iii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(3), (b)(1), (b)(3), (c)(1), and (c)(3).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(3), (b)(3), and (c)(3).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The recordkeeping requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.125 (a) through (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 32416, Aug. 9, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 20424, May 13, 1992. 
Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, 
June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4720  Disubstituted phenoxazine, chlorometalate salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 361]]

chemical substance identified generically as disubstituted phenoxazine, 
chlorometalate salt (PMN P-90-0002) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 46467, Oct. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4740  Alkali metal nitrites.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new use subject to 
reporting. (1) The category of chemical substances which are nitrites of 
the alkali metals (Group IA in the periodic classification of chemical 
elements) lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium, cesium, and francium, is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Use as an ingredient in metalworking 
fluids (as defined in 40 CFR 721.3) containing amines.
    (b) [Reserved]

[58 FR 27944, May 12, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4792  2-propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, C [bdi1][bdi1]-[bdi1]
[bdi4]-isoalkyl esters, C [bdi1][bdi3]-rich.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenoic acid, 2-
methyl-, C<INF>11-14</INF>-isoalkyl esters, C<INF>13</INF>-rich (PMN P-
99-1189; CAS No. 85736-97-6) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (a monomer for casting automotive parts 
adhesives or impregnation fluid).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(c)(4) (N = 1 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15085, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4794  Polypiperidinol-acrylate methacrylate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polypiperidinol-acrylate methacrylate (PMN P-88-1304) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), 
(a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), 
(g)(2)(v). The following additional statement shall appear on each label 
and MSDS required by this paragraph: This substance may cause acute and 
chronic toxicity.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (l) and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.

[[Page 362]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[59 FR 27484, May 27, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4820  Methane, bromodifluoro-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as methane, 
bromodifluoro- is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(v), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(iii), and (g)(5). In addition, the following statements shall 
appear on the label and MSDS: This substance may cause cardiotoxicity. 
Evacuate area before the concentration of this substance in the area 
reaches 1 percent. Residential use is prohibited due to cardiotoxic 
dangers. General consumer use is prohibited, with the exception of 
outdoor automotive use and outdoor marine use. Following discharge and 
evacuation, use protective gear (self-contained breathing apparatus) 
before reentering an area in which the airborne concentration of the PMN 
substance exceeds 1 percent.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (Use in portable fire extinguishers 
intended for consumer use except for outdoor automotive use and outdoor 
marine use; use in fire extinguisher units with an Underwriters 
Laboratory (UL) rating of less than 5BC; use in other than rechargeable 
fire extinguisher units; use in occupied areas from which personnel 
cannot be evacuated before the concentration of the PMN substance 
exceeds 1 percent or egress cannot occur within 30 seconds; or use 
without protective gear (self-contained breathing apparatus) being made 
available in the event that, following discharge of the PMN substance 
and evacuation of the area, personnel must reenter an area in which the 
airborne concentration of the PMN substance exceeds 1 percent.)
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (c), (f) through 
(i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 19238, Apr. 25, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 59 FR 39296, Aug. 2, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4840  Substituted tri phenyl meth ane.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted triphenylmethane (PMN P-87-1553) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), (x)(1) and (y)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[56 FR 40216, Aug. 13, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4880  Methanol, trichloro-, carbonate (2:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as methanol, trichloro-
, carbonate (2:1) (CAS No. 32315-10-9) (PMN P-90-1535) is subject to 
reporting under this section for

[[Page 363]]

the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(iii), (g)(5). The following additional human hazard precautionary 
statement shall appear on the label: This substance may react to form 
phosgene gas. When using this substance, handle with extreme caution.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), and 
(h).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[56 FR 40213, Aug. 13, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4885  Methanone, [5-[[3-(2H-benzotriazol-2-yl)-2-hydroxy-5
-(1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutyl)phenyl]methyl]-2-hydroxy-4-(octyloxy)
phenyl]phenyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as methanone, [5-[[3-
(2H-benzotriazol-2-yl)-2-hydroxy-5-(1,1,3,3-
tetramethylbutyl)phenyl]methyl]-2-hydroxy-4-(octyloxy)phenyl]phenyl- 
(PMN P-96-942; CAS No.162245-07-0) is subject to the reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), 
(a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). As an 
alternative to the respiratory protection requirements of this section, 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance may follow 
the terms of the new chemical exposure limits section in the TSCA 
section 5(e) consent order for this substance.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[63 FR 3430, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.4925  Methyl n-butyl ketone.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance methyl n-butyl ketone, CAS Number 591-78-6, 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Persons who must report. Section 721.5 applies to this section 
except for Sec. 721.5(a)(2). A person who intends to manufacture, 
import, or process for commercial purposes the substance identified in 
paragraph (a)(1) of this section and intends to distribute the substance 
in commerce must submit a significant new use notice.
    (2) [Reserved]

[52 FR 11825, Apr. 13, 1987. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. 
Further redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 
34204, June 23, 1993]

[[Page 364]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5050  2,2'-[(1-Methyl ethylidene) bis[4,1-phenyl oxy[1-
(butoxy methyl)-(2,1-ethan ediyl]oxy methyl ene]]biso xirane, reaction
product with a diamine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 2,2'-
[(1-methyl ethyl i dene) bis[4,1-phenyl oxy[1-(bu toxy methyl)-(2,1-eth 
ane diyl]oxy methyl ene]] biso xirane, reaction product with a diamine 
(PMN P-91-934), is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 46467, Oct. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5075  Mixed methyltin mercaptoester sulfides.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance generically identified as mixed 
methyltin mercaptoester sulfides (PMN P-92-177) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), 
(g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), 
(g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1) and 
(a)(2) (only in a facility permitted to landfill Resources Conservation 
and Recovery Act (RCRA) hazardous wastes with the landfill operated in 
accordance with subtitle C of RCRA).
    (iv) [Reserved]
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4) (where N = 2 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f) through (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 51685, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5175  Mitomycin C.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance mitomycin C (CAS No. 5007-7) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Manufacture, import, or processing 
of 10,000 pounds or more per year per facility for any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), and (c).
    (2) [Reserved]

[58 FR 63517, Dec. 1, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5185  2-Propen-1-one, 1-(4-morpholinyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-Propen-1-one, 1-
(4-morpholinyl)- (PMN P-95-169; SNUN S-08-7; and SNUN S-14-

[[Page 365]]

1; CAS No. 5117-12-4) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The 
requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the chemical 
substance after it has been completely reacted (cured) because 2-Propen-
1-one, 1-(4-morpholinyl)- will no longer exist.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3)(i), (a)(3)(ii), (a)(4), 
(a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). Safety 4/4H 
EVOH/PE laminate, Ansell Edmont Neoprene number 865, and Solvex Nitrile 
Rubber number 275 gloves have been tested in accordance with the 
American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM) F739 method and found by 
EPA to satisfy the consent orders and Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(i) requirements 
for dermal protection to 100 percent PMN substance. Gloves and other 
dermal protection may not be used for a time period longer than they are 
actually tested and must be replaced at the end of each work shift. For 
additional dermal protection materials, a company must submit all test 
data to the Agency and must receive written Agency approval for each 
type of material tested prior to use of that material as worker dermal 
protection. However, for the purposes of determining the imperviousness 
of gloves, up to 1 year after the commencement of commercial manufacture 
or import, the employer may use the method described in Sec. 
721.63(a)(3)(ii), thereafter, they must use the method described in 
Sec. 721.63(a)(3)(i).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(y)(1). It is a significant new use to use 
the chemical substance for any use other than as a monomer for use in 
ultraviolet ink jet applications unless the chemical substance is 
processed and used in an enclosed process.
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 100).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 371, Jan. 5, 2000, as amended at 76 FR 27914, May 13, 2011; 80 FR 
37165, June 30, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5192  Substituted 1,6-dihydroxy naphthalene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted 1,6-dihydroxy naphthalene (PMN P-87-1036) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3), (b) 
(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (k), and (q).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1) and 
(a)(2).
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(3).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[[Page 366]]

    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[60 FR 45083, Aug. 30, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5200  Disubstituted phenylazo trisubstituted naphthalene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
disubstituted phenylazo trisubstituted naphthalene (PMN P-91-328) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (g), (v)(1), (w)(1), (x)(1), and (y)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 46467, Oct. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5225  Naphthalene,1,2,3,4-tetra- hy dro(1-phenylethyl) 
(specific name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance naphthalene,1,2,3,4-tetrahydro(1-
phenylethyl) (PMN P-85-1331) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (b)(2), (c), (e) [concentration set at 1.0 percent], (f), and 
(g)(3)(i) and (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i) and (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (iii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a) (1) 
and (2), (b)(1) and (b)(2), and (c)(1) and (c)(2).
    (iv) [Reserved]
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where n = 1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 26110, June 26, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 62 FR 42692, Aug. 8, 
1997]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5250  Trimethyl spiropolyheterocyclic naphthalene compound.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
trimethyl spir o poly het er o cyc lic naphthalene compound (PMN P-91-
1456) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements as 
specified at Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 31968, July 20, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]

[[Page 367]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5252  2-Naphthalenecarboxylic acid, 4,4'-methylenebis
[3-hydroxy-, zinc salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-
Naphthalenecarboxylic acid, 4,4'-methylenebis [3-hydroxy-, zinc salt (P-
99-1342; CAS No. 235083-88-2) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Record keeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70177, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5253  2-Naphthalenecarboxylic acid, 4,4'-methylenebis 
[3-hydroxy-, strontium salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-
Naphthalenecarboxylic acid, 4,4'-methylenebis [3-hydroxy-, strontium 
salt (PMN P-99-1341; CAS No. 235083-90-6) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Record keeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70177, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5255  2-Naphthalenol, mono and dioctyl derivs.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-naphthalenol, mono 
and dioctyl derivs (PMN P-95-1288) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 1). When calculating the surface 
water concentrations according to the instructions in Sec. 721.91, the 
statement that the amount of the substance that will be released will be 
calculated before the substance enters control technology does not 
apply. Instead, if the waste stream containing the substance will be 
treated before release, then the amount of the substance reasonably 
likely to be removed from the waste stream by such treatment may be 
subtracted in calculating the number of kilograms released. No more than 
90 percent removal efficiency may be attributed to such treatment.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3430, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5260  1,3,6-Naphthalenetrisulfonic acid, 7-[[2-
[(aminocarbonyl)amino]- 4-[[4-[[2-[2-(ethenylsulfonyl)ethoxy] 
ethyl]amino]- 6-fluoro-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl]amino]phenyl]azo], 
trisodium salt.
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,3,6-

[[Page 368]]

Naphthalenetrisulfonic acid, 7-[[2-[(aminocarbonyl)amino]-4-[[4-[[2-[2-
(ethenylsulfonyl)ethoxy]ethyl]amino]-6-fluoro-1,3,5-triazin-2-
yl]amino]phenyl]azo], trisodium salt (PMN P-00-0806; CAS No. 106359-91-
5) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15085, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5262  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 5-[[4-chloro-6-[[2-[2-
(ethenylsulfonyl)ethoxy] ethyl]amino]-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl]amino]-4- 
hydroxy-3-[2-(1-sulfo-2- naphthalenyl)diazenyl]-, sodium salt (1:3).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2,7-
naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 5-[[4-chloro-6-[[2-[2-
(ethenylsulfonyl)ethoxy]ethyl]amino]-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl]amino]-4-
hydroxy-3-[2-(1-sulfo-2-naphthalenyl)diazenyl]-, sodium salt (1:3) (PMN 
P-00-0803; CAS No. 259795-03-4) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15085, Mar. 28, 2003, as amended at 79 FR 34637, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5275  2-Napthalenecarboxamide-N-aryl-3-hydroxy-4-arylazo
(generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance 2-naph thal ene car box a mide-N-
aryl-3-hy droxy-4-arylazo (PMN P-87-1265) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii) through (a)(5)(vii), and (a)(6)(i), (b) 
[concentration set at 0.1 percent], and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) [concentration set at 0.1 percent], 
(f), and (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(v), and (g)(1)(vii), and (g)(2)(ii) and 
(g)(2)(iv).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 26110, June 26, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5276  2-Naphthalenol, heptyl-1-[[(4-phenylazo)phenyl]azo]-,
ar',ar''-Me derivs.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 369]]

chemical substance identified as 2-naphthalenol, heptyl-1-[[(4-
phenylazo)phenyl] azo]-, ar',ar''-Me derivs (PMN P-95-538) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[61 FR 63739, Dec. 2, 1996]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5278  Substituted naphthalenesulfonic acid, alkali salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted naphthalenesulfonic acid, alkali salt (PMN P-95-85) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 45083, Aug. 30, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5279  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-amino-3-[[4'2-amino-
4-[(3-butoxy-2-hydroxypropyl)amino]phebyl]azo]-3,3'-dimethyl[1,1'-
biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-5-hydroxy-6-(phenylazo)-, disodium salt.
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2,7-
naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-amino-3-[[4'2-amino-4-[(3-butoxy-2-
hydroxypropyl)amino]phebyl]azo]-3,3'-dimethyl[1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl]azo]-
5-hydroxy-6-(phenylazo)-, disodium salt (PMN P-97-131; CAS No. 103580-
64-9) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 40).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3430, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5280  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-amino-5-hydroxy-,
coupled with diazotized 4-butylbenzenamine, diazotized 4,4'
-cyclohexylidenebis[benzenamine] and m-phenylenediamine, sodium salt.
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2,7-
naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-amino-5-hydroxy-, coupled with diazotized 
4-butylbenzenamine, diazotized 4,4'-cyclohexyl-idenebis[benzenamine] and 
m-phenylenediamine, sodium salt (PMN P-97-193; CAS No. 182238-09-1) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

[[Page 370]]

    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3430, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5281  2-Naphthalenesulfonic acid, 3-[[4-[(2,4-dimethyl-6
-sulfophenyl)azo]-2-methoxy-5-methylphenyl]azo]-4-hydroxy-7-
(phenylamino)-, sodium salt, compd. With 2,2',2''-nitrilotris
[ethanol] (9CI).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-
Naphthalenesulfonic acid, 3-[[4-[(2,4-dimethyl-6-sulfophenyl)azo]-2-
methoxy-5-methylphenyl]azo]-4-hydroxy-7-(phenylamino)-, sodium salt, 
compd. With 2,2',2''-nitrilotris [ethanol] (9CI) (PMN P-95-1235; CAS No. 
94213-53-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3430, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5282  Trisodium chloro [(trisubstituted heteromonocycle amino)
propylamino]triazinylamino hydroxyazo naphthalenetrisulfonate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
trisodium chloro[(trisubstituted heteromonocycleamino) 
propylamino]triazinyl aminohydroxyazo naphthalenetrisulfonate (PMN P-94-
2177) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 45083, Aug. 30, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5283  Cobaltate (5-), bis[4-[[6-[(4-amino-6-chloro-1,3,5-
triazin-2-yl)amio]-1-hydroxy-3-sulfo-2-naphthalenyl]azo]-3-hydroxy-
7-nitro-1- naphthalenesulfonato(4-)]-, pentasodium.
         

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as cobaltate (5-), 
bis[4-[[6-[(4-amino-6-chloro-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl)amio]-1-hydroxy-3-sulfo-
2-naphthalenyl]azo]-3-hydroxy-7-nitro-1-naphthalenesulfonato(4-)]-, 
pentasodium (PMN P-99-0990; CAS No. 91144-26-2) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 371]]

    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(xii), and (a)(5)(xiii).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (a spray applied automotive coating).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15085, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5284  Chromate (5-), bis[4-hydroxy-7-[(2-hydroxy-
1-naphthalenyl)azo]- 3-[(2-hydroxy-3-nitro-5-sulfophenyl)azo]
-2- naphthalenesulfonato(4-)]-,pentasodium. 
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as a Chromate (5-), 
bis[4-hydroxy-7-[(2-hydroxy-1- naphthalenyl)azo]- 3-[(2-hydroxy-3-nitro-
5-sulfophenyl)azo]-2- naphthalenesulfonato(4-)]-, pentasodium (PMN P-99-
0114; CAS No. 159574-72-8) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81401, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5285  Ethoxylated substituted naphthol.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an 
ethoxylated substituted naphthol (PMN P-88-2484) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 200 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51685, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5286  Benzenediazonium, [[[[(substituted) azo]phenyl]sulfonyl]
amino]-, coupled with aminophenol, diazotized aminobenzoic acid, 
diazotized (substituted) benzenesulfonic acid and naphthalenol (generic).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
benzenediazonium, [[[[(substituted) azo]phenyl]sulfonyl]amino]-, coupled 
with aminophenol, diazotized aminobenzoic acid, diazotized (substituted) 
benzenesulfonic acid and naphthalenol (PMN P-00-0045) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 372]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15086, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5288  Chromate(2-), [3-hydroxy-4-[(2-hydroxy-1-naphthenyl)azo]
-7-nitro-1-substituted][N-[7-hydroxy-8-[(2-hydroxy-5-nitrophenyl)azo]
-1-substituted]-, salt (generic).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
chromate(2-), [3-hydroxy-4-[(2-hydroxy-1-naphthenyl)azo]-7- nitro-1-
substituted][N-[7-hydroxy-8-[(2-hydroxy-5-nitrophenyl)azo]-1-
substituted]-, salt (PMN P-99-783) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(1) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70178, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5290  Phenylazoalkoxy naphthylamines (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
phenylazoalkoxy napthylamines (PMNs P-97-42 and P-97-43) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 50 for P-97-42) (N = 40 for P-97-43).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44578, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5293  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), alpha-(9Z)-9-octadecenyl-
.omega.-hydroxy-, phosphate, ammonium salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as poly(oxy-1,2-
ethanediyl), alpha-(9Z)-9-octadecenyl-.omega.-hydroxy-, phosphate, 
ammonium salt (PMN P-99-920; CAS No. 58857-49-1) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph 
(a)(1) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70178, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5310  Neononanoic acid, ethenyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as neononanoic acid, 
ethenyl ester (PMN P-92-129) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section. The requirements of this

[[Page 373]]

section do not apply once the substance has been incorporated into a 
polymer matrix with the level of residual monomer below 0.1 percent.
    (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Protection in the workplace. 
Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i) (There must 
be no permeation of the substance greater than 0.02 [micro]g/min 
[middot] cm\2\ after 8 hours of testing in accordance with the most 
current version of the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) 
F739 ``Standard Test Method for Resistance of Protective Clothing 
Materials to Permeation by Liquids or Gases.'' For conditions of 
exposure which are intermittent, gloves may be tested in accordance with 
the most current version of ASTM F1383 ``Standard Test Method for 
Resistance of Protective Clothing Materials to Permeation by Liquids or 
Gases Under Conditions of Intermittent Contact,'' provided the contact 
time in testing is greater than or equal to the expected duration of 
dermal contact, and the purge time used in testing is less than or equal 
to the expected duration of noncontact during the intermittent cycle of 
dermal exposure in the workplace. If ASTM F1383 is used for testing, 
manufacturers, importers, and processors must submit to the Agency a 
description of worker activities involving the substance which includes 
daily frequencies and durations of potential worker exposures. The 
results of all glove permeation testing must be reported in accordance 
with the most current version of ASTM F1194 ``Guide for Documenting the 
Results of Chemical Permeation Testing of Protective Clothing 
Materials.'' Manufacturers, importers, and processors must submit all 
test data to the Agency and must receive written Agency approval for 
each type of glove tested prior to use of such gloves. The following 
gloves have been tested in accordance with the ASTM F739 method and 
found by EPA to satisfy the requirements for continuous use: North/F101/
Vitron gloves, 0.03 cm thick; and Ansell/Edmont/4H/PE/EVOH/PE Laminate 
gloves, 0.006 cm thick. Gloves may not be used for a time period longer 
than they are actually tested and must be replaced at the end of each 
work shift.), (a)(2)(ii) (With the exception of laboratory activities, 
full body chemical protective clothing is required for any worker 
activity in which the substance is reasonably likely to contact the 
worker in the following state(s): Open liquid pool or solid of greater 
than 5 kg; liquid spray or splash; mist; aerosol dust; or any worker 
activity which have potential for contact with the substance for more 
than 10 min/h. At a minimum, a chemical protective apron is required for 
any worker activity with potential for contact with the substance which 
is not covered by this paragraph), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4), 
(a)(5)(iii) (if cartridge service life testing is not available), 
(a)(5)(xii) or (a)(5)(xiii) (if data on cartridge service life testing 
has been reviewed and approved in writing by EPA), (a)(6)(i), 
(a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), and (a)(6)(v). As an alternative to the 
respiratory requirements in this section, manufacturers, importers, and 
processors may use the New Chemical Exposure Limits provisions, 
including sampling and analytical methods which have previously been 
approved by EPA for this substance, found in the 5(e) consent order for 
this substance.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (h)(1)(vi) (The following additional statements shall appear on 
each label required by this paragraph: The health effects of this 
material have not been fully determined but are currently being tested. 
EPA is concerned however, that this material may have serious chronic 
health and environmental effects. When using this material, use eye and 
skin protection, which includes gloves which have been determined to be 
impervious to this substance. Use respiratory protection, unless 
workplace airborne concentrations are maintained at or below an 8-h time 
weighted average (TWA) of 1 ppm, when there is a likelihood of exposure 
in the work area from dust, mist, smoke or vapors.), (h)(2)(ii)(F), 
(h)(2)(ii)(G), (h)(2)(ii)(I), (h)(2)(iii)(A), (h)(2)(iii)(B), 
(h)(2)(iii)(C), (h)(2)(iii)(E), (h)(2)(iv)(A), (h)(2)(iv)(B) (The 
following additional statements shall appear on each MSDS required by 
this paragraph: This substance may cause moderate skin irritation. This 
substance may

[[Page 374]]

cause neurotoxicity. When using this substance, use respiratory 
protection, unless workplace airborne concentrations are maintained at 
or below an 8-h TWA of 1 ppm.)
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 5 ppb). When calculating the 
surface water concentrations according to the instructions in Sec. 
721.91(a)(4), the statement that the amount of the substance that will 
be released will be calculated before the substance enters control 
technology does not apply. Instead, if the waste stream containing the 
substance will be treated before release, then the amount of the 
substance reasonably likely to be removed from the waste stream by such 
treatment may be subtracted in calculating the number of kilograms 
released. No more than 75 percent removal efficiency may be attributed 
to such treatment. In addition, when the substance is released in 
combination with the substances hexanedioic acid, diethenyl ester, 
hexanoic acid, 2-ethyl-, ethenyl ester, and propanoic acid, 2,2-
dimethyl-, ethenyl ester, the quotient from the formula referenced in 
this section shall not exceed the average of the quotient applicable to 
the other substances weighted by the proportion of each substance 
present in the total daily amount released.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance. Manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of the substance must keep records documenting that the 
PMN substance has been incorporated into a polymer matrix with the level 
of residual monomer below 0.1 percent if this section does not apply as 
described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 51705, Oct. 4, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 68311, Dec. 27, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5315  Nickel, cobalt mixed metal oxide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as nickel, 
cobalt mixed metal oxide. (PMN P-02-90) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f) and (j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[68 FR 70178, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5325  Nickel, tris(neodecanoato-.kappa.O)[.mu.3-[orthoborato
(3-)-.kappa.O:.kappa.O':.kappa.O'']]tri-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as nickel, 
tris(neodecanoato-.kappa.O)[.mu.3-[orthoborato(3-
)-.kappa.O:.kappa.O':.kappa.O'']]tri- (PMN P-85-1034; CAS No. 936576-64-
6) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at

[[Page 375]]

0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i) through 
(g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5). The provision of Sec. 
721.72(d) requiring that employees to be provided with information on 
the location and availability of a written hazard communication program 
does not apply when the written program is not required under Sec. 
721.72(a).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (e), (f), (g), 
and (h).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 39901, Sept. 28, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 79 FR 34638, June 18, 
2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5330  Nickel salt of an organo compound containing nitrogen.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance generically identified as nickel 
salt of an organo compound containing nitrogen (PMN P-92-686) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), 
(a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(vii), 
(g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), 
and (g)(5). The following additional statements shall appear on each 
label and MSDS as required by this paragraph: This substance may cause 
skin sensitization. This substance may cause blood effects.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (b), (c), and (k).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85(a)(2) 
(landfill operated in accordance with subtitle C of the Resource 
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) to receive nickel wastes), Sec. 
721.85(b)(2) (landfill operated in accordance with subtitle C of RCRA to 
receive nickel wastes), and Sec. 721.85(c)(2) (landfill operated in 
accordance with subtitle C of RCRA to receive nickel wastes).
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 40 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51685, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5340  Substituted benzothiazole-azo-substituted benzoquinoline
nickel complex (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted benzothiazole-azo-substituted benzoquinoline nickel complex 
(PMN P-99-897) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a),

[[Page 376]]

(b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70178, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5350  Butanenitrile, 2-amino-2,3-dimethyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as butanenitrile, 2-
amino-2,3-dimethyl- (PMN P-83-603; CAS No. 13893-53-3) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5) (iii), 
(a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b)(1), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), 
(g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), and (g)(4)(i). The provision of Sec. 
721.72(d) requiring that employees be provided with information on the 
location and availability of MSDSs does not apply when an MSDS was not 
required under Sec. 721.72(c). The provision of Sec. 721.72(g) 
requiring placement of specific information on an MSDS does not apply 
when an MSDS is not required under Sec. 721.72(c).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (level set at 1 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (g), (i), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 33305, Aug. 15, 1990; 55 FR 52275, Dec. 21, 1990. Redesignated 
and amended at 58 FR 29946, 29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 
1993; 79 FR 34638, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5356  Ethanol, 2,2'2''-nitrilotris-, compound with alpha-2,4
,6-tris (1-phenylethyl)phenyl]-omega-hydroxypoly (oxy-1,2-ethanediyl)
phosphate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as ethanol, 2,2'2''-
nitrilotris-, compound with alpha-[2,4,6-tris(1-phenylethyl)phenyl]-
omega-hydroxypoly (oxy-1,2-ethanediyl) phosphate (PMN P-98-185) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f) and (j) (pesticide inert).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44579, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5358  2-propanol, 1,1',1'-nitrilotris-, compds. with ethanol
2-[2-(C [bdi1][bdi2] [bdi1][bdi4] -alkyloxy) ethoxy] derivs. hydrogen
sulfates.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propanol, 1,1',1'-
nitrilotris-, compds. with ethanol 2-[2-(C<INF>12-14</INF>- alkyloxy) 
ethoxy] derivs. hydrogen sulfates (PMN P-99-928; CAS No. 222975-06-6) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 377]]

    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (surfactant used in toilet bowl cleaner).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70178, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5360  Substituted nitrobenezene (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted nitrobenezene (PMN P-97-1028) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), and 
(a)(6)(v).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44579, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5375  Ni tro thio phene car boxy lic acid, ethyl es ter, bis
[[[[(sub sti tut ed)] amino] alkyl-phenyl] az o] (ge ner ic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance ni tro thio phene car boxy lic 
acid, ethyl ester, bis [[[[(substituted)] amino] alkyl phenyl] azo] (PMN 
P-87-304) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (k), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), and (c).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 26110, June 26, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5378  9-Phosphabicyclo[3.3.1]nonane,9,9'-(1,2-ethanediyl)bis-
(9C1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 9-
Phosphabicyclo[3.3.1]nonane,9,9'-(1,2-ethanediyl)bis- (9C1) (PMN P-99-
0754; CAS No.153280-11-6) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (v)(2), (w)(2), and (y)(2).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).

[[Page 378]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81401, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5380  Mixed alkyl phenolic novolak resin (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as mixed 
alkyl phenolic novolak resin (PMN P-98-718) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 372, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5385  Octanoic acid, hydrazide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as octanoic acid, 
hydrazide (PMN P-92-1086) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Protection in the workplace. 
Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), 
(a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(ii), (b) 
(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1) and 
(b)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (j) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 51706, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5400  3,6,9,12,15,18,21-Hepta oxa tetra triaoctanoic acid,
sodium salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 3,6,9,12,15,18,21-
hep ta oxa te tra tri aocta noic acid, sodium salt is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions

[[Page 379]]

of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[56 FR 19237, Apr. 25, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5425  [alpha]-Olefin sulfonate, potassium salts.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as an [alpha]-olefin 
sulfonate, potassium salt (PMN P-91-100) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[56 FR 40215, Aug. 13, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5450  [alpha]-Olefin sulfonate, sodium salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as [alpha]-
olefin sulfonate, sodium salt (PMN P-88-2210) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the employer 
must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods 
for protecting against such risk, into an MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the 
new information. If this substance is not being manufactured, imported, 
processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add 
the new information to an MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into 
the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive this 
substance from the employer are provided an MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(1)(i)(A) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of 
the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of this substance
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44068, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5452  Alkali metal salt of halogenated organoborate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as alkali 
metal salt of halogenated organoborate (PMN P-00-0638) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).

[[Page 380]]

    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15086, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5454  Methylium, tripohenyl-, tetrakis(pentafluorophenyl)
borate (1-).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as methylium, 
tripohenyl-, tetrakis(pentafluorophenyl) borate (1-) (PMN P-00-0637; CAS 
No. 136040-19-2) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15086, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5460  Organosolv lignin.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as an organosolv lignin 
(PMN P-95-1584; CAS No. 8068-03-9) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new use is any manufacture, processing, or use 
of the substance with a number average molecular weight less than 700 
daltons.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and records documenting compliance with the 
designated molecular weight requirements are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 65710, Nov. 30, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5465  Amine salt of organic acid (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as amine 
salt of organic acid (PMN P-98-1172) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 372, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5475  1-Oxa-4-azaspiro[4.5]decane, 4-dichloroacetyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-oxa-4-
azaspiro[4.5]decane, 4-dichloroacetyl- (PMN P-86-1648, CAS number 71526-
07-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

[[Page 381]]

    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3) (applies to gloves 
only), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), 
(a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 
percent), (f), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), 
(g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (f) and (k).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(b)(1) and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (j) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44068, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5500  7-Oxabicyclo[4.1.0]heptane, 3-ethenyl, homopolymer,
ether with 2-ethyl-2-(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-pro pane diol (3:1),
epoxidized.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance 7-oxabicyclo[4.1.0] heptane, 3-
ethenyl, homopolymer, ether with 2-ethyl-2(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-
propanediol (3:1), epoxidized (PMN P-88-1898) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(viii), (a)(5)(ix), 
(a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), 
(g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (l) and (q).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (j).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 39902, Sept. 28, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5525  Substituted spiro oxazine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted spiro oxazine (PMN P-92-283) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements as 
specified at Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.

[[Page 382]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 31969, July 20, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5540  1H,3H,5H-oxazolo [3,4-c] oxazole, dihydro-7a-methyl-.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1H,3H,5H-oxazolo 
[3,4-c] oxazole, dihydro-7a-methyl- (PMN P-91-1324) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(2)(iii) and (a)(3).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 500 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. The following recordkeeping 
requirements specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (k) 
are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 26691, May 18, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5545  3-(Dichloroacetyl)-5-(2-furanyl)-2,2-dimethyl-
oxazolidine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 3-(dichloroacetyl)-
5-(2-furanyl)-2,2-dimethyloxazolidine (PMN P-93-1694) (CAS no. 121776-
57-6) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration 
set at 0.1%), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1%), (f), 
(g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), 
(g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activites. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (b), (c), (k) (as a seed safener), and (o).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[61 FR 63739, Dec. 2, 1996]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5546  Halogen substituted oxetanes (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as halogen 
substituted oxetanes. (PMNs P-98-1033 through P-98-1035) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of these 
chemical substances is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or 
processing associated with any use of these chemical substances without 
providing risk notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for these chemical substances, the employer becomes 
aware that these chemical substances may present a risk of injury to 
human health or the environment, the employer must incorporate this new 
information, and any information on methods for protecting against such 
risk, into a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the 
new information. If this chemical substance is not being manufactured, 
imported, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the

[[Page 383]]

employer must add the new information to an MSDS before the chemical 
substances are reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive or who 
have received the chemical substances from the employer within 5 years 
from the date the employer becomes aware of the new information 
described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, are provided an 
MSDS as described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing the information required 
under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the 
time the employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of these chemical substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[68 FR 70178, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5547  Antimony double oxide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
antimony double oxide (PMNs P-95-677 and P-95-724) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(3)(ii), and (g)(5). The label 
and MSDS as required by this paragraph shall also include the following 
statements: These substances may cause lung toxicity. When using these 
substances avoid any applications of these substances which could cause 
inhalation exposures. When using these substances keep in liquid form 
only.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (v)(1), (v)(2), (w)(1), (w)(2), 
(x)(1), (x)(2), (y)(1), and (y)(2). Manufacturing, processing or use in 
any form which could cause inhalation exposures.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3431, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5548  Mixed metal oxide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a mixed 
metal oxide (PMN P-97-956) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), and (a)(6)(i).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (d) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44579, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5549  Lithiated metal oxide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
lithiated metal oxide (LiNiO<INF>2</INF>) (PMN P-96-19; CAS No. 12031-
65-1) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 384]]

    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(iv), (b) 
(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). As an alternative to the 
respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or 
processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) 
provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this 
substance.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f) (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)4)(i), and 
(g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 30).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[63 FR 3431, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5550  Substituted dialkyl oxa zo lone (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted dialkyl oxazolone (PMN P-86-1634) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(xi), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration 
set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), 
(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(2)(v).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (j).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 33306, Aug. 15, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5560  Formaldehyde, polymer with (chloromethyl) oxirane and
phenol, reaction products with 6H-dibenz[c,e][1,2]oxaphosphorin-6-oxide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1)The chemical substance identified as formaldehyde, polymer 
with (chloromethyl) oxirane and phenol, reaction products with 6H-
dibenz[c,e][1,2]oxaphosphorin-6-oxide. (PMN P-00-991; CAS No. 300371-38-
4) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 6).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a),

[[Page 385]]

(b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70179, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5575  Oxirane, 2,2'-(1,6-hex ane diyl bis (oxymethylene)) bis-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as oxirane, 2,2'-(1,6-
hexanediylbis(oxymethylene))bis- (PMN P-88-2179; PMN P-89-539; and SNUN 
S-08-3; CAS No. 16096-31-4) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section. The reporting requirements of this rule do not apply once the 
chemical substance has been incorporated or encapsulated into plastic.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1),(a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(viii), (a)(5)(ix), (a)(6)(ii), and 
(b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), 
(g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q). A significant new use of the chemical 
substance is any commercial use other than the commercial use described 
in S-08-3.
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (b)(1), 
(b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2).
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(2)(ii), (b)(1), and (c)(1). The following may be used as an 
alternative to the technologies in Sec. 721.90(a)(2)(ii): Oil and 
grease separation.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a) through (k).
    (2) Limitation of revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 19238, Apr. 25, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 80 FR 70175, Nov. 13, 
2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5580  Oxirane, 2,2'-[methylenebis[(2,6-dimethyl-4,1-phenylene)
oxymethylene]]bis-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as oxirane, 2,2'-
[methylenebis[(2,6-dimethyl-4,1-phenylene)oxymethylene]]bis- (PMN P-97-
1011; CAS No. 93705-66-9) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), 
(a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), (b) (concentration set 
at 0.1 percent), and (c). As an alternative to the respiratory 
requirements listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or processor may 
choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions 
listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The 
NCEL is 0.35 milligram/meter\3\ (mg/m\3\).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(3)(i), 
(g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (f) and (q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),

[[Page 386]]

(b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[63 FR 44579, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5585  4,4'-(1-methylethylidene)bisphenol, polymer with 
(chloromethyl)oxirane and a diamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 4,4'-(1-
methylethylidene)bisphenol, polymer with (chloromethyl) oxirane and a 
diamine (PMN P-97-0916) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and 
(g)(5).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81401, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5590  Oxirane, [[[(1R,2S,5R)-5-methyl-2- (1-methylethyl)
cyclohexyl] oxy]methyl]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as oxirane, 
[[[(1R,2S,5R)-5-methyl-2-(1-methylethyl)cyclohexyl]oxy]methyl]- (PMN P-
00-0330; CAS No. 249297-16-3) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15086, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5600  Substituted oxirane.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted oxirane (PMN P-83-1157) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i) through (a)(5)(iii), (a)(6)(v), 
(a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), and 
(g)(2)(v). The provisions of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring employees to be 
provided with information on the location and availability of a written 
hazard communication program and MSDSs do not apply when the written 
program and MSDS are not required under Sec. 721.72 (a) and (c), 
respectively. The provisions of Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement of 
specific information on a label and MSDS do not apply when a label and 
MSDS are not required under Sec. 721.72 (b) and (c), respectively.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(h).

[[Page 387]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), 
and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 46774, Nov. 6, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5625  Oxiranemethanamine, N,N'-[methylenebis(2-ethyl-4,
1-phenylene)]bis[N-(oxiranylmethyl)]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as oxiranemethanamine, 
N,N'-[methylenebis(2-ethyl-4,1-phenylene)]bis[N-(oxiranylmethyl)]- (PMN 
P-91-411; CAS number 130728-76-6) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (o), and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44070, Sept. 23, 1992. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5645  Pentane 1,1,1,2,3,4,4,5,5,5,-decafluoro.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as pentane 
1,1,1,2,3,4,4,5,5,5,-decafluoro (PMN P-95-638, SNUN P-97-79, and SNUN S-
06-8; CAS No. 138495-42-8) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use of the 
substance other than the uses as described in P-95-638, P-97-79, or S-
06-8.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3431, Jan. 22, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 37165, June 30, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5650  Pentanediol light residues.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
pentanediol light residues (PMN P-95-1750) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 388]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3431, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5700  Pentanenitrile, 3-amino-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as pentanenitrile, 3-
amino- (PMN P-91-222; CAS number 75405-06-0) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), during both drumming and 
transfer of the substance requirements as specified in Sec. 721.63 
(a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), and (a)(5)(iii) apply, and during transfer (but 
not drumming) of the substance, requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(5)(xii), (a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xiv), and (a)(5)(xv) apply 
following submittal by the company, and written approval by the EPA, of 
the results of cartridge service life testing performance in accordance 
with Interim Recommendations for Determining Organic Vapor Cartridge 
Service Life for Category 23C Respirators (available through the TSCA 
Assistance Office), or equivalent, which demonstrates the effectiveness 
of the organic vapor cartridge, (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 
percent), and (c). The requirements specified in Sec. 721.63(a) (4) and 
(5) apply only during drumming activities and during transfer of liquid 
PMN substance from a process vessel into a tank, truck, or rail car.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), 
(g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44069, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5708  2-Pentene, 1,1,1,2,3,4,4,5,5,5-decafluoro-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-Pentene, 
1,1,1,2,3,4,4,5,5,5-decafluoro- (PMN P-95-637; CAS No.72804-49-0) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3431, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5710  Phenacetin.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance phenacetin (CAS No. 62-442) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Manufacture, import, or processing 
of 10,000 pounds or more per year per facility for any use.

[[Page 389]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), and (c).
    (2) [Reserved]

[58 FR 63517, Dec. 1, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5713  Phenol - biphenyl polymer condensate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
phenol--biphenyl polymer condensate (PMN P-00-1220 and S-07-2) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90(a)(4), 
(b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 5).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70179, Dec. 17, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 37165, June 30, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5725  Phenol, 2,4-dimethyl-6-(1-methylpentadecyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phenol, 2,4-
dimethyl-6-(1-methylpentadecyl)- (PMN P-94-209; CAS No. 134701-20-5) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this 
rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after it has been 
completely reacted (cured); embedded or incorporated into a polymer 
matrix that has been reacted (cured); or embedded, encapsulated, or 
incorporated into a permanent solid matrix (does not include slurries) 
that is not intended to undergo further processing, except for 
mechanical processing.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), and (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 41696, July 16, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5740  Phenol, 4,4'-methy lenebis (2,6-dimethyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as Phenol, 4,4'-
methylenebis (2,6-dimethyl- (PMNs P-88-864, P-90-211, and P-94-921; CAS 
No. 5384-21-4) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), 
(a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and 
(g)(5). The label and MSDS as required by this paragraph shall also 
include the following statements: This substance may cause blood 
effects. This substance may cause chronic effects.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (g), (l), and (q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).

[[Page 390]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 33306, Aug. 15, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 63 FR 45956, Aug. 28, 
1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5760  Phenol, 4,4'-[methylene bis (oxy-2,1-ethanediylthio)]bis-.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance phenol, 4,4'-[methylenebis(oxy 
2,1-eth ane diyl thio)]bis- (PMN P-87-1760) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (b)(2), (f), (g)(3)(ii), and (g)(4)(iii). The provision of Sec. 
721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information on an MSDS does 
not apply when an MSDS is not required under Sec. 721.72(c).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), 
(b), (c), (f), (g), and (j).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[55 FR 33306, Aug. 15, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5762  Aromatic aldehyde phenolic resin (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as aromatic 
aldehyde phenolic resin (PMN P-01-573) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1)
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in ' 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70179, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5763  Methylenebisbenzotriazolyl phenols.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
methylenebisbenzotriazolyl phenols (P-94-1042) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and 
(c). Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.63(a)(5)(i) apply during 
manufacture of the PMN substance. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(5)(iii) through (a)(5)(vii) apply during use of the PMN 
substance.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (l) and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 391]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (d) and (f) through (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.575(b)(1) apply to this section.

[60 FR 45083, Aug. 30, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5769  Mixture of nitrated alkylated phenols.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as a mixture of 
nitrated alkylated phenols (PMN P-93-987) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where n = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 45083, Aug. 30, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5775  Phenol, 5-amino-2,4-dicholoro-, hydrochloride.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phenol, 5-amino-2,4-
dicholoro-, hydrochloride (PMN P-98-198) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(i), (w)(i), and (x)(i).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44579, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5780  Phenol, 4,4'-(oxybis(2,1-ethanediylthio)bis-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance phenol, 4,4'-(oxybis(2,1-
ethanediylthio)bis- (PMN P-89-651) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration 
set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(2)(v).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(r) (82,000 kg; 141,000 kg; and 272,000 kg 
with testing required at each interval).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 39902, Sept. 28, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]

[[Page 392]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5800  Sulfurized alkylphenol.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance described generically as 
sulfurized alkylphenol (PMN P-89-708) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the employer 
must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods 
for protecting against such risk, into an MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the 
new information. If this substance is not being manufactured, imported, 
processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add 
the new information to an MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into 
the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive this 
substance from the employer are provided an MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(1)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 4578, Feb. 6, 1992. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5820  Aminophenol.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
aminophenol (P-83-909) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1) and (a)(3).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b)(1)(i)(D) and (g)(2)(v). The provision of Sec. 
721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information in an MSDS does 
not apply when an MSDS is not required under Sec. 721.72(c).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), and (g).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[56 FR 25989, June 5, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5840  Ethylated aminophenol.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
ethylated aminophenol (P-83-908) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1) and (a)(3).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b)(1)(i)(D) and (g)(2)(v). The provision of Sec. 
721.72(g) requiring placement of

[[Page 393]]

specific information in an MSDS does not apply when an MSDS is not 
required under Sec. 721.72(c).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), and (g).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[56 FR 25989, June 5, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5860  Methylphenol, bis(sub sti tuted)alkyl.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
methylphenol, bis (sub sti tut ed)alkyl (P-84-417) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 
percent), (f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), and (g)(2)(v).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 720.80 (k) (antioxidant/stabilizer for polymers) 
and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 25991, June 5, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 
24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5867  Substituted phenol.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance generically identified as 
substituted phenol (PMNs P-89-1125, P-91-87, P-92-41, P-92-511, P-94-
1527, and P-94-1755) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (ingredient in a photoresist formulation).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 23679, Apr. 30, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5880  Sulfur bridged substituted phenols (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance sulfur bridged substituted phenols 
(PMN P-89-396) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv) (specifically liver and blood effects), (g)(2)(i), 
(g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 394]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. The recordkeeping requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) and (c) through (h) are applicable to 
manufacturers and importers of this substance. Any statements requiring 
processors to keep records in Sec. 721.125 do not apply.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 32417, Aug. 9, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 59 FR 40260, Aug. 8, 
1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5900  Trisubstituted phenol (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance trisubstituted phenol (PMN P-85-
605) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii) through (a)(5)(vii) and 
(a)(6)(i), (b) [concentration set at 0.1 percent], and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (d), (e) [concentration set at 0.1 percent], (f), 
(g)(1)(vii), and (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(2)(v). The 
provision of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring that employees be provided with 
information on the location and availability of MSDSs does not apply 
when a MSDS was not required under Sec. 721.72(c). The provisions of 
Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information on a label 
and MSDS do not apply when a label and MSDS are not required under Sec. 
721.72 (b) and (c), respectively.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 26111, June 26, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5905  Modified phenolic resin (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
modified phenolic resin (PMN P-01-441) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90(a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70179, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5908  Modified phenolic resin (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as modified 
phenolic resin (PMN P-01-561) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90(a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 395]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70180, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5912  Phenoxazin-5-ium, 3-dialkylamino-7-arylamino-, 
salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
Phenoxazin-5-ium, 3-dialkylamino-7-arylamino-, salt (PMN P-99-0723) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81402, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5913  Phenothiazine derivative.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
phenothiazine derivative (PMN P-96-813) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, and importers of 
this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3432, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5914  Polysubstituted bis phenylazonapthalene disulfonic acid
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
Polysubstituted bis phenylazonapthalene disulfonic acid. (PMN P-99-0479) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81402, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5915  Polysubstituted phenylazopolysubstitutedphenyl dye.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
polysubstituted phenylazopolysubstitutedphenyl dye (PMN P-93-658) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

[[Page 396]]

    (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Industrial, commercial and 
consumer activities. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.80 (w)(1), 
(w)(2), (x)(1), and (x)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51706, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5917  Phenyl azo dye (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a phenyl 
azo dye (PMN P-02-17) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(v)(2), (w)(2), and (x)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70180, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5920  Phenyl(disubstitutedpolycyclic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
phenyl(disubstitutedpolycyclic) (PMN P-92-1337) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Release to water. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.90 (a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 10 
ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51706, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5925  Bis heterocyclic phenylene derivative (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as bis 
heterocyclic phenylene derivative (PMN P-01-0432) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (20,000 kg/yr).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15086, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5930  Phenylenebis[imino (chlorotriazinyl)imino(substituted
naphthyl)azo(substituted phenyl)azo, sodium salt (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
phenylenebis[imino (chlorotriazinyl)imino(substituted naphthyl)azo 
(substituted phenyl) azo, sodium salt (PMN P-95-274) is subject

[[Page 397]]

to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[61 FR 63739, Dec. 2, 1996]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5935  Alkylated nitroso-phenylenediamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkylated nitroso-phenylenediamine (PMN P-00-636) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1) and (a)(3).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70180, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5960  N,N'-Bis(2-(2-(3-alkyl)thia- zoline) vinyl)-1,4-pheny
lene dia mine methyl sulfate double salt (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as N,N'-
Bis(2-(2-(3-alkyl) thi a zo line)vinyl)-1,4-phenyl ene di a mine methyl 
sulfate double salt (PMN P-84-913) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), 
(a)(5)(vi), (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b)(2), (c), (d), (e), (f) (concentration set at 1 
percent), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1), (may be lethal if inhaled or in contact 
with eyes), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). 
The provision of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring that employees be provided 
with information on the location and availability of MSDSs does not 
apply when an MSDS is not required under Sec. 721.72(c). The provision 
of Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information on an 
MSDS does not apply when an MSDS in not required under Sec. 721.72(c).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[55 FR 26098, June 26, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5965  Substituted S-phenylthiazole (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted s-phenylthiazole (PMN P-97-1046) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 398]]

    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44580, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5970  Phosphated polyarylphenol ethoxylate, potassium salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
phosphated polyarylphenol ethoxylate, potassium salt (PMN P-93-1222) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 600 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[59 FR 27485, May 27, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5980  Dialkyl phosphorodithioate phosphate compounds.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as dialkyl 
phosphorodithioate phosphate compounds (P-90-1642 through 1649) are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of these 
substances is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of these substances without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for these substances, the employer becomes aware that any 
of these substances may present a risk of injury to human health, the 
employer must incorporate this new information, and any information on 
methods for protecting against such risk, into an MSDS as described at 
Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware 
of the new information. If these substances are not being manufactured, 
imported, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer 
must add the new information to an MSDS before these substances are 
reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who have received, or will 
receive, these substances from the employer are provided an MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing the information required under 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes 
aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (h), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[[Page 399]]

    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 40214, Aug. 13, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 46729, Sept. 16, 1991. 
Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 
34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.5985  Fatty alkyl phosphate, alkali metal salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a fatty 
alkyl phosphate, alkali metal salt (PMN P-99-0385) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[65 FR 81402, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6000  Tris (2,3-dibromopropyl) phosphate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance tris (2,3-dibromopropyl) phosphate (CAS 
Number 126-72-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Any use.
    (b) Special provisions. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Persons who must report. Section 721.5 applies to this section 
except for Sec. 721.5(a)(2). A person who intends to manufacture, 
import, or process for commercial purposes the substance identified in 
paragraph (a)(1) of this section and intends to distribute the substance 
in commerce must submit a significant new use notice.
    (2) [Reserved]

[52 FR 2703, Jan. 26, 1987. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. 
Further redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 
34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6005  Rare earth phosphate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as rare 
earth phophate (PMNs P-99-1191 and P-99-1192) are subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15086, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6020  Phosphine, dialkylyphenyl.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
phosphine dialkylphenyl (P-83-1023) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), 
(a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b)(2), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1

[[Page 400]]

percent), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), 
(g)(2)(iv), and (g)(2)(v). The provision of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring 
that employees be provided with information on the location and 
availability of MSDSs does not apply when an MSDS is not required under 
Sec. 721.72(c). The provision of Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement of 
specific information in an MSDS does not apply when an MSDS is not 
required under Sec. 721.72(c).
    (iii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(2); 
(b)(2); and (c)(2).
    (iv) Release to Water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(3), (b)(3), and (c)(3).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a) through (g), (i), (j), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[56 FR 25991, June 5, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6045  Phosphinothioic acid, bis(2,4,4-trimethylpentyl)- (9CI).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phosphinothioic 
acid, bis(2,4,4-trimethylpentyl)- (9CI) (PMN P-96-1652; CAS No. 132767-
86-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10). When calculating the surface water 
concentrations according to the instructions in Sec. 721.91, the 
statement that the amount of the substance that will be released will be 
calculated before the substance enters control technology does not 
apply. Instead, if the waste stream containing the substance will be 
treated using carbon adsorption treatment before release, then the 
amount of the substance reasonably likely to be removed from the waste 
stream by such treatment may be subtracted in calculating the number of 
kilograms released. No more than 99 percent removal efficiency may be 
attributed to such treatment.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3432, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6060  Alkylaryl substituted phosphite.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkylaryl substituted phosphite (PMN P-91-899) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the employer 
must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods 
for protecting against such risk, into an MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the 
new information. If this substance is not being manufactured, imported, 
processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add 
the new information to an MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into 
the workplace.

[[Page 401]]

    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who have received, or will 
receive, this substance from the employer are provided an MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing the information required under 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes 
aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements as 
specified at Sec. 721.125(a) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 31969, July 20, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 
FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6070  Alkyl phosphonate ammonium salts.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as alkyl 
phosphonate ammonium salts (PMNs P-93-725 and P-93-726) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Release to water. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.90 (a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 400 
ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51707, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6075  Phosphonic acid, 1,1-methylenebis-tetrakis(1-methylethyl) ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phosphonic acid, 
1,1-methylenebis-tetrakis(1-methylethyl) ester (PMN P-95-168) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3), (b) 
(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). The label and MSDS required by 
this paragraph shall also include the following statement: This 
substance may cause mutagenicity.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (h) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3432, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6080  Phosphonium salt (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance phosphonium salt (PMN Number P-84-
820) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1) and (a)(3), (b) [concentration set at 1.0 percent], and 
(c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (d), (e) [concentration set at 1.0 percent], (f), and 
(g)(1)(iii) and (g)(2)(i) and

[[Page 402]]

(g)(2)(v). The provision of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring that employees be 
provided with information on the location and availability of MSDSs does 
not apply when a MSDS was not required under Sec. 721.72(c). The 
provisions of Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific 
information on a label and MSDS do not apply when a label and MSDS are 
not required under Sec. 721.72(b) and (c), respectively.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 26111, June 26, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6085  Phosphonocarboxylate salts.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
phosphonocarboxylate salts (PMNs P-93-722, P-93-723, and P-93-724) are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Release to water. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.90 (a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 1000 
ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51707, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6090  Phosphoramide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
phosphoramide (P-89-538) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the employer 
must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods 
for protecting against such risk, into an MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the 
new information. If this substance is not being manufactured, imported, 
processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add 
the new information to an MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into 
the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive, or who 
have received this substance from the employer within 5 years from the 
date the employer becomes aware of the new information described under 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, are provided an MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing the information required under 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the 
employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 403]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 51686, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6097  Phosphoric acid derivative (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
phosphoric acid derivative (PMN P-95-284) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[61 FR 63739, Dec. 2, 1996]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6100  Phosphoric acid, C [bdi6]-[bdi1][bdi2]-alkyl esters,
compounds with 2-(dibutylamino) ethanol.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as phosphoric acid, 
C<INF>6-12</INF>-alkyl esters, compounds with 2-(dibutylamino)ethanol 
(PMN P-90-384) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (concentration set at 700 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c) and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[56 FR 19239, Apr. 25, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6110  Alkyldi(alkyloxyhydroxypropyl) derivative, phosphoric
acid esters, potassium salts.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an 
alkyldi(alkyloxyhydroxypropyl) derivative, phosphoric acid esters, 
potassium salts (PMN P-91-818) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f) and (o).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 45084, Aug. 30, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6120  Phosphoric acid, 1,2-eth a ne diyl tet ra kis(2-chloro-
1-meth yl ethyl) ester.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phosphoric acid, 
1,2-ethanediyl tetrakis(2-chloro-1-methylethyl) ester (PMN P-861263) is 
subject to reporting under

[[Page 404]]

this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(6)(v), (b) 
(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(iv), and (g)(2)(v).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (use other than as a flame retardant for 
polyurethane foams).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (j).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[55 FR 33307, Aug. 15, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6140  Dialkyldithiophosphoric acid, aliphatic amine salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
dialkyldithiophosphoric acid, aliphatic amine salt (P-90-1839) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the employer 
must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods 
for protecting against such risk, into an MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the 
new information. If this substance is not being manufactured, imported, 
processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add 
the new information to an MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into 
the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons will receive this 
substance from the employer are provided an MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44069, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6160  Piperazinone, 1,1',1''-[1,3,5-triazine-2,4,6-triyltris
[(cyclohexylimino)-2,1-ethanediyl]]tris-[3,3,4,5,5-pentamethyl]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as piperazinone, 
1,1',1''-[1,3,5-triazine-2,4,6-triyltris [(cyclohexylimino)-2,1-eth a ne 
diyl]]tris-[3,3,4,5,5-pen ta methyl]- (PMN P-89-589; CAS number 130277-
45-1) is subject to reporting under this section

[[Page 405]]

for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv) through (vii), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration 
set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d) (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), and 
(g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (d), and (f) through (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44069, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6165  Polysubstituted piperidine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
polysubstituted piperdine (PMN P-93-568) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 30).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3433, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6167  Piperdinium, 1,1-dimethyl-, chloride.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as piperdinium, 1,1-
dimethyl-, chloride. (PMN P-02-207; CAS No. 24307-26-4) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[68 FR 70180, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6170  Siloxanes and silicones, Me hydrogen, reaction products
with 2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-4-(2-propenyloxy)piperdine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as siloxanes and 
silicones, Me hydrogen, reaction products with 2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-4-(2-
propenyloxy)piperdine (PMN P-95-1891; CAS No. 182635-99-0) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]

[[Page 406]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3433, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6175  2-Piperdinone, 1,3- dimethyl-,.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-Piperdinone, 1,3-
dimethyl-, (PMN P-97-520 and SNUN 00-397; CAS No. 1690-76-2) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), 
(g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (use or processing other than: in 
enclosed systems (such as hydrocarbon extraction, polymer synthesis, 
wire enamel resin); electronic industry cleaning solvent; and other 
precision industry cleaning (such as automobile manufacturing, 
aerospace, and optics)), (o), and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this substance.

[63 FR 44580, Aug. 20, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 12882, Mar. 20, 2002]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6176  2-Piperdinone, 1,5- dimethyl-,.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-Piperdinone, 1,5-
dimethyl-, (PMN P-97-521 and SNUN 00-398; CAS No. 86917-58-0) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), 
(g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (use or processing other than: in 
enclosed systems (such as hydrocarbon extraction, polymer synthesis, 
wire enamel resin); electronic industry cleaning solvent; and other 
precision industry cleaning (such as automobile manufacturing, 
aerospace, and optics)), (o), and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this substance.

[63 FR 44580, Aug. 20, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 12882, Mar. 20, 2002]

[[Page 407]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6178  Alkylaminated polyolefin (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkylaminated polyolefin (PMN P-99-1287) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15087, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6180  Polyalkylene glycol polyamide ester phosphate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyalkylene glycol polyamide ester phosphate (PMN P-98-0903) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81402, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6181  Fatty acid, reaction product with substituted oxirane,
formaldehyde-phenol polymer glycidyl ether, substituted proplyamine
and polyethylenepolyamines (generic)
          .

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fatty 
acid, reaction product with substituted oxirane, formaldehyde-phenol 
polymer glycidyl ether, substituted proplyamine and 
polyethylenepolyamines (PMN P-98-1125) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15087, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6183  Amides, from ammonium hydroxide - maleic anhydride
polymer and hydrogenated tallow alkyl amines, sodium salts, compds.
with ethanolamine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as amides, from 
ammonium hydroxide - maleic anhydride polymer and hydrogenated tallow 
alkyl amines, sodium salts, compds. with ethanolamine (PMN P-00-0691; 
CAS No. 208408-03-1) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 80 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 408]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15087, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6186  Polyamine dithiocarbamate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
polyamine dithiocarbamate (PMN No. P-91-1328) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 50 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[58 FR 32239, June 8, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6193  Polyalkylene polyamine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance generically identified as a 
polyalkylene polyamine (PMN P-89-963) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(i), (g)(4) (users minimize 
release to water), and (g)(5) are applicable to manufacturers and 
importers.
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and importers of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[62 FR 64740, Dec. 9, 1997]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6196  Hydrochloride salt of a fatty polyalkkylene polyamine
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
Hydrochloride salt of a fatty polyalkkylene polyamine (PMN P-99-0618) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81402, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6200  Fatty acid polyamine condensate, phosphoric acid ester
salts.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as fatty acid 
polyamine condensate, phosphate ester salts (PMNs P-90-1984 and P-90-
1985) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 409]]

    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 46467, Oct. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6205  Hexamethylenediamine adduct of substituted piperidinyloxy
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
hexamethylenediamine adduct of substituted piperidinyloxy (PMN P-99-
0510) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(i), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), 
(a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(5)(vii), 
(a)(5)(viii), (a)(5)(ix), (a)(5)(x), (a)(5)(xi), (a)(5)(xii), 
(a)(5)(xiii) (a)(5)(xiv), (a)(5)(xv), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), 
(a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(iv), (a)(6)(v), and (a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration 
set at 1.0 percent), and (c). The imperviousness of each item pursuant 
to paragraph (a)(2)(i) must be demonstrated by actual testing under 
paragraph (a)(3) and not by manufacturer specifications. Permeation 
testing shall be conducted according to the American Society for Testing 
and Materials (ASTM) F739 ``Standard Test Method for Resistance of 
Protective Clothing Materials to Permeation by Liquids or Gases'' or its 
equivalent. Results shall be recorded as a cumulative permeation rate as 
a function of time, and shall be documented in accordance with ASTM F739 
using the format specified in ASTM 1194-89 ``Guide for Documenting the 
Results of Chemical Permeation Testing on Protective Clothing 
Materials'' or its equivalent. Gloves may not be used for a time period 
longer than they are actually tested and must be replaced at the end of 
each work shift. The manufacturer, importer, or processor must submit 
all test data to the Agency and must receive written Agency approval for 
each type of glove tested prior to use of such gloves. The following 
gloves have been tested in accordance with the ASTM F739 method and 
found to satisfy the requirements for use by EPA: Latex (at least 14 
mils thick), Nitrile (at least 16 mils thick), and Silvershield (at 
least 3 mils thick). As an alternative to the respiratory requirements 
listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow 
the NCEL provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for 
this substance. The NCEL is 0.2 ug/m\3\ as an 8-hour time weighted 
average verified by actual monitoring data.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(viii), 
(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[68 FR 15087, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6220  Aryl sulfonate of a fatty acid mixture, polyamine
condensate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an aryl 
sulfonate of a fatty acid mixture, polyamine condensate (PMN P-91-584) 
is subject to reporting

[[Page 410]]

under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 46467, Oct. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6440  Polyamine urea for malde hyde condensate 
(specific name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance polyamine ureaformaldehyde 
condensate (PMN P-87-1456) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4) [concern level of 1 ppb], (b)(4) [concern level of 1 ppb], and 
(c)(4) [concern level of 1 ppb].
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 26112, June 26, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6470  Polyaminopolyacid.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
polyaminopolyacid (PMN No. P-92-491) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (concentration set at 500 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[58 FR 32240, June 8, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6475  Alkyl polycarboxylic acids, esters with ethoxylated 
fatty alcohols.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as alkyl 
polycarboxylic acids, esters with ethoxylated fatty alcohols (PMNs P-96-
554/555/556/557/558/559) are subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. The chemical substances identified generically as alkyl 
polycarboxylic acids, esters

[[Page 411]]

with ethoxylated fatty alcohols (PMN P-96-560/561/564/565) are subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (i) The significant new uses are:
    (A) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (B) [Reserved]
    (ii) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (A) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (B) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3433, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6477  Alkyl polycarboxylic acids, esters with ethoxylated
fatty alcohols, reaction products with maleic anhydride.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as alkyl 
polycarboxylic acids, esters with ethoxylated fatty alcohols, reaction 
products with maleic anhydride (PMNs P-96-399/400/401/402/403/404) are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3434, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6479  Tetrahydroheteropolycycle (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
Tetrahydroheteropolycycle (PMN P-97-0766) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1)(i), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii) (if no data on 
cartridge service life testing has been reviewed and approved by EPA), 
(a)(5)(xii) (if data on cartridge service life testing has been reviewed 
and approved by EPA), (a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xiv), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii) 
(a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(iv), (a)(6)(v), and (a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration 
set at 1.0 percent), and (c). The imperviousness of each item pursuant 
to paragraph (a)(2)(i) must be demonstrated by actual testing under 
paragraph (a)(3) and not by manufacturer specifications. Permeation 
testing shall be conducted according to the American Society for Testing 
Materials (ASTM) F739 ``Standard Test Method for Resistance of 
Protective Clothing Materials to Permeation by Liquids or Gases.'' 
Results shall be recorded as a cumulative permeation rate as a function 
of time, and shall be documented in accordance with ASTM F739 using the 
format specified in ASTM 1194-89 ``Guide for Documenting the Results of 
Chemical Permeation Testing on Protective Clothing Materials.'' Gloves 
may not be used for a time period longer than they are actually tested 
and must be replaced at the end of each work shift. The manufacturer, 
importer, or processor must submit all test data to the Agency and must 
receive written Agency approval for each type of glove tested prior to 
use of such gloves. The following gloves have been tested in accordance 
with the ASTM F739 method and found to satisfy the requirements for use 
by EPA: Latex (at least 14 mils thick), Nitrile (at least 16 mils 
thick), and Silvershield (at least 3 mils thick). As an alternative to 
the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or 
processor may choose to follow the NCEL provisions

[[Page 412]]

listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The 
NCEL is 1.0 ug/m\3\ as an 8-hour time weighted average verified by 
actual monitoring data.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), 
(g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (12,300 kilograms).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81402, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6485  Hydroxy terminated polyester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
hydroxy terminated polyester (PMN P-95-1213) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3434, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6490  Alkyl phenyl polyetheramines.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as alkyl 
phenyl polyetheramines (PMNs P-95-1650/1651/1652/1653) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3434, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6493  Amidoamine modified polyethylene glycol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an 
amidoamine modified polyethylene glycol (PMN P-99-0645) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81403, Dec. 26, 2000]

[[Page 413]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6495  Aliphatic polyisocyanate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an 
aliphatic polyisocyanate (PMN P-95-1347) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(y)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3434, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6498  Modified polyisocyanates (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as modified 
polyisocyanates (PMN P-96-1428) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(viii), (a)(5)(ix), 
(a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). As an 
alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, 
importer, or processor may choose to follow the NCEL provisions listed 
in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 
0.05 mg/m\3\.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), and (g)(5). The following statements shall appear on each label as 
specified in Sec. 721.72(b) and the MSDS as specified in Sec. 
721.72(c): Warnings. Exposure to diisocyanates may cause the following 
human health effects: Skin irritation and allergic reactions, 
respiratory irritation, respiratory sensitization, and lung toxicity; 
some diisocyanates also may cause cancer. The likelihood that these 
effects will occur depends on a number of factors; among them, the level 
of exposure, frequency of exposure, part of the body exposed, and 
sensitivity of the exposed individual. Symptoms of allergic reaction and 
respiratory sensitization include rashes, cough, shortness of breath, 
asthma, chest tightness and other breathing difficulties. There is 
uncertainty as to the mechanism by which sensitization occurs. In 
sensitized individuals, exposure to even small amounts of diisocyanates 
(below government-recommended workplace exposure levels) may cause 
allergic respiratory reactions like asthma and severe breathing 
difficulties. It is especially important to note that contact with skin 
may lead to respiratory sensitization or cause other allergic reactions. 
In some cases, the effects of diisocyanate exposure may be immediate and 
life-threatening; in others, the effects may be delayed and occur hours 
after the exposure has ended. Repeated or prolonged exposure to 
diisocyanates may also cause irritation to eyes, skin, respiratory tract 
and lungs, as well as adverse chronic lung effects, like decreased lung 
capacity and function. Individuals experiencing shortness of breath, 
tightness in the chest or other problems breathing should seek immediate 
medical attention. When using this substance the following protective 
measures should be used: In workplaces where individuals handle 
diisocyanates or coatings or other formulations that contain them, an 
industrial hygiene and safety program should be operative. Important 
components of this program include: Hazard communication and training on 
safe handling practices; use of efficient and well-maintained 
application equipment, engineering controls and personal protective 
equipment; housekeeping procedures including spill prevention and 
cleanup practices; and, if feasible, means to measure airborne levels of 
polyisocyanates and diisocyanates. During spray applications, workers 
should take precautions

[[Page 414]]

to avoid breathing vapors, mists or aerosols. Inhalation exposures 
should be limited to <0.05 mg/m\3\ as an 8-hour time-weighted average 
(TWA) for combined polyisocyanates and diisocyanates. Engineering 
controls should serve as the first, most effective means of reducing 
airborne polyisocyanate and diisocyanate concentrations; an appropriate 
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health/Mine Safety and 
Health Administration (NIOSH/MSHA) approved respirator should be used as 
a secondary tool to lower exposures. Currently, downdraft spray booths 
and high-volume low-pressure (HVLP) spray guns appear to offer the most 
efficient technology to reduce inhalation exposures; a maintenance 
program should always be used to ensure optimal operating efficiencies. 
To limit dermal contact, individuals should wear impermeable gloves, 
protective clothing and goggles or glasses with side shields.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activites. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[63 FR 44580, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6505  Polymers of C [bdi1][bdi3]C [bdi1][bdi5] oxoalcohol
ethoxolates.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
polymers of C<INF>13</INF>C<INF>15</INF> oxoalcohol ethoxolates (PMNs P-
96-950/951) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3434, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6515  Polymerof polyalkylenepolyol and trisubstituted phenol
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as polymer 
of polyalkylenepolyol and trisubstituted phenol (PMN P-98-1016) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81403, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6520  Acrylamide, polymer with substituted alkylacrylamide 
salt (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
acrylamide, polymer with substituted alkylacrylamide salt (PMN P-87-794) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

[[Page 415]]

    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (limit set at 216,700 kg).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), 
(b), (c), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[55 FR 33303, Aug. 15, 1990. Redesignated at 55 FR 52276, Dec. 21, 1990. 
Further redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 
34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6540  Acrylamide, polymers with tetraalkyl ammonium salt 
and polyalkyl, aminoalkyl meth a cryl a mide salt.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
acrylamide, polymers with tetraalkyl ammonium salt and poly al kyl, 
amino alkyl meth a cryl a mide salt (PMNs P-88-2100 and P-88-2169) are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 46468, Oct. 8, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6560  Acrylic acid, polymer with substituted ethene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as acrylic 
acid, polymer with substituted ethene (PMN P-91-521) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 200 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 46468, Oct. 8, 1992, as amended at 53 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6620  Alkanaminium, polyalkyl-[(2-methyl-1-oxo-2-propenyl)oxy]
salt, polymer with acrylamide and substituted alkyl methacrylate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkanaminium, polyalkyl-[(2-methyl-1-oxo-2-propenyl)oxy] salt, polymer 
with acrylamide and substituted alkyl methacrylate (PMN P-87-252) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (production limit set at 680,000 kg).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 
(a)(4), (b)(4) and (c)(4) (concentration set at 40 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),

[[Page 416]]

(b), (c), (i), and (j) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44070, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6660  Polymer of alkanepolyol and poly alkyl poly iso cyan
ato car bo mo no cycle, acetone oxime-blocked (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
polymer of alkane polyol and polyalkylpolyisocyanatocarbomonocy- cle, 
acetone oxime-blocked (PMN P-88-1658) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 26100, June 26, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6680  Alkanoic acid, butanediol and cyclohexanealkanol
polymer (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance alkanoic acid, butanediol, and 
cyclohexanealkanol polymer (PMN P-89-672) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows.
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the employer 
must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods 
for protecting against such risk, into a Material Safety Data Sheet 
(MSDS) as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the 
employer becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not 
being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the employer's 
workplace, the employer must add the new information to an MSDS before 
the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who have received, or will 
receive, this substance from the employer are provided an MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing the information required under 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes 
aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q) (293,000 kg).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (c), (h) and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[[Page 417]]

    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 32417, Aug. 9, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6900  Polymer of bisphenol A di glyc i dal ether, substituted
al kenes, and but a diene.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as polymer 
of bisphenol A diglycidal ether, substituted alkenes, and butadiene 
(PMNs P-90-244 and P-90-245) are subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. The following recordkeeping 
requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors 
of this substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 15791, Apr. 17, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6920  Butyl acrylate, polymer with substituted methyl styrene,
methyl methacrylate, and substituted silane.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as butyl acrylate, 
polymer with substituted methyl styrene, methyl methacrylate, and 
substituted silane (PMN P-91-272) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(viii), 
(a)(5)(ix), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 per 
cent), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), 
(g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (volume set at 90,000 kg), (volume set 
at 512,000 kg), (volume set at 1,235,000 kg).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 44070, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.6980  Dimer acids, polymer with polyalkylene glycol, 
bisphenol A-diglycidyl ether, and alky lenepolyols polyglycidyl
ethers (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance dimer acids, polymer with 
polyalkylene glycol, bisphenol A-diglycidyl ether, and alkylenepolyols 
polyglycidyl ethers (PMN P-86-628) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant

[[Page 418]]

new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1) and (a)(3), (b) [concentration set at 0.1 percent], and 
(c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) [concentration set at 0.1 percent], 
(f), and (g)(1)(vi) and (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(v), (g)(4)(i), 
and (g)(5). The provision of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring that employees be 
provided with information on the location and availability of MSDSs does 
not apply when a MSDS was not required under Sec. 721.72(c).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (k) and (y).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1) and 
(a)(2) and (b)(1) and (b)(2).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 26109, June 26, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7000  Polymer of disodium maleate, allyl ether, and ethylene
oxide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
polymer of disodium maleate, allyl ether, and ethylene oxide (P-91-1086) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the employer 
must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods 
for protecting against such risk, into an MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the 
new information. If this substance is not being manufactured, imported, 
processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add 
the new information to an MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into 
the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who have received, or will 
receive, this substance from the employer are provided an MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing the information required under 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the 
employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. The following recordkeeping 
requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors 
of this substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (h), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44071, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7020  Distillates (petroleum), C(3-6), polymers with styrene 
and mixed terpenes (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 419]]

chemical substance distillates (petroleum), C(3-6), polymers with 
styrene and mixed terpenes (PMN P-89-676) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows.
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the employer 
must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods 
for protecting against such risk, into a Material Safety Data Sheet 
(MSDS) as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the 
employer becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not 
being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the employer's 
workplace, the employer must add the new information to an MSDS before 
the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who have received, or will 
receive, this substance from the employer are provided an MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing the information required under 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes 
aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (c), (h) and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 32414, Aug. 9, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 
24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7046  Formaldehyde, polymer with substituted phenols,
glycidyl ether.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as formaldehyde, 
polymer with substituted phenols, glycidyl ether (PMN P-93-955) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this 
section do not apply once the substance is a component of a highly 
densified tablet formulation of an epoxy molding compound.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c). Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(5)(i) 
apply during manufacturing only. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(5)(i) through (a)(5)(vii) apply during processing for workers 
exposed greater than 17 days per year or during use.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(v), 
(g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (b), (l), and (q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.

[[Page 420]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[60 FR 45084, Aug. 30, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 42692, Aug. 8, 1997]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7160  2-Oxepanone, polymer with 4,4'-(1-methylethylidene)
bisphenol and 2,2-[(1-methylethylidene)bis(4,1-phe ny lene oxy methyl
ene)] bi sox i- rane, graft.
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance 2-oxepanone, polymer with 4,4'(1-
meth yl eth yli dene)bi sphen ol and 2,2-[(1-meth yl eth yli dene) 
bis(4,1-phen yl ene oxy meth ylene)]bi soxi rane, graft (PMN P-88-2582) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i),(a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), 
(a)(5)(viii), (a)(5)(ix), (a)(5)(x), (a)(5)(xi), (a)(6)(ii), (b) 
(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (l) and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 33306, Aug. 15, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7200  Perfluoroalkyl aromatic carbamate modified alkyl
methacrylate copolymer.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
perfluoroalkyl aromatic carbamate modified alkyl methacrylate copolymer 
(PMN P-87-1555) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements asspecified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent for 
cancer; 1.0 percent for other effects), (f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(ii), and 
(g)(5). In addition, the following human health hazard statement shall 
appear on each label and MSDS required by this section: This substance 
may cause lung effects.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (o) and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (f) through (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44071, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7210  Epoxidized copolymer of phenol and substituted phenol.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as epoxidized copolymer 
of phenol and substituted phenol (PMN P-91-598) is

[[Page 421]]

subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this 
section do not apply once the substance is a component of a highly 
densified tablet formulation of an epoxy molding compound.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(6)(i), (b) 
(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a) through (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), 
(g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44071, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 62 FR 42692, Aug. 8, 1997]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7220  Polymer of substituted phenol, formaldehyde, 
epichlorohydrin, and disubstituted benzene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as polymer 
of substituted phenol, formaldehyde, epichlorohydrin, and disubstituted 
benzene (PMN P-89-1104) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), (g)(4)(i), and 
(g)(5). The following additional human hazard precautionary statement 
shall appear on each label as specified in Sec. 721.72(b): Disposal 
restrictions apply.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(c)(2)(v), or diatomaceous earth filtration.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a) through (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 19242, Apr. 25, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7250  Polyaziridinyl ester of an aliphatic alcohol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
polyaziridinyl ester of an aliphatic alcohol (PMN P-01-97) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 422]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.575(b)(1) apply to this section.

[68 FR 70180, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7255  Polyethyleneamine crosslinked with substituted
polyethylene glycol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyethyleneamine crosslinked with substituted polyethylene glycol with 
substituted polyethylene glycol (PMN P-01-833) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (absorbent polymer).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70180, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7260  Polymer of poly ethylene polyamine and alkanediol
di gly cidyl ether.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as polymer 
of polyethylenepolyamine and alkanediol diglycidyl ether (PMN P-89-810) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows.
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a Material 
Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) which includes a written listing of safety data 
for this substance within 90 days from the time the employer becomes 
aware of the new information. If this substance is not being 
manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, 
the employer must add the new information to an MSDS before the 
substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who have received, or will 
receive, this substance from the employer are provided an MSDS 
containing a written listing of safety data for this chemical and the 
information required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) within 90 days from 
the time the employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (2,000,000 kg).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (c), and (h) (In addition, 
each manufacturer, importer and processor of this substance shall 
maintain for five years from the date of their creation, copies of 
material safety data sheets required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of 
this section).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions

[[Page 423]]

of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 46774, Nov. 6, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7270  1-propanaminium, 3-amino-, N,N,N-trimethyl-N-soya acyl
derivs., chloride.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-propanaminium, 3-
amino-, N,N,N-trimethyl-N-soya acyl derivs., chloride (PMN P-01-646; CAS 
No. 391232-99-8) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70181, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7280  1,3-Propanediamine, N,N'-1,2-ethanediylbis-, polymer 
with 2,4,6-trichloro-1,3,5-triazine, reaction products with N-butyl-2,
2,6,6-tetramethyl-4-piperidinamine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,3-propanediamine, 
N,N'-1,2-ethanediylbis-, polymer with 2,4,6-trichloro-1,3,5-triazine, 
reaction products with N-butyl-2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-4-piperidinamine (PMN 
P-89-632) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), 
(a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 
0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a) through (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(i), 
(g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 33308, Aug. 15, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 60 FR 65582, Dec. 20, 
1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7285  Amines, N-cocoalkyltrimethylenedi-, citrates.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as amines, N-
cocoalkyltrimethylenedi-, citrates. (PMN P-93-880; CAS No. 189120-63-6) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.

[[Page 424]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44581, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7286  Amines, N-tallowalkyltripropylenetetra-, citrates.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as amines, N-
tallowalkyltripropylenetetra-, citrates (PMN P-93-881; CAS No. 189120-
62-5) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44581, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7290  Propanoic acid, 2-(trimethoxysilyl)-, ethyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as propanoic acid, 2-
(trimethoxysilyl)-, ethyl ester (PMN P-01-22; CAS No. 137787-41-8) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90(a)(4), 
(b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70181, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7375  Potassium salt of polyolefin acid.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
potassium salt of polyolefin acid (PMN P-97-417) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3434, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7378  Substituted polyoxyethylene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted polyoxyethylene (PMN P-93-1654) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (use as an emulsifier for paint and 
adhesives).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 425]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3434, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7440  Polyalkylenepolyol alky la mine. (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyalkylenepolyol alkylamine (PMN P-89-483) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), 
(g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (l) and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 33307, Aug. 15, 1990, as amended at 55 FR 52276, Dec. 21, 1990. 
Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 
34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7450  Aromatic amine polyols.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
aromatic amine polyols (PMNs P-93-212 and P-93-213) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51686, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7480  Isocyanate terminated polyols.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
isocyanate terminated polyols (P-90-404, P-90-405, and P-90-406) are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), 
(a)(5)(iii), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent) and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), 
(g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). The following additional human health 
hazard statements shall appear on each label and MSDS required by this 
paragraph: The substance may cause eye irritation, lung effects, dermal 
sensitization, pulmonary sensitization, or systemic effects.

[[Page 426]]

    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (volume set at 245,000 kg; aggregate 
manufacture and import volume for PMNs P-90-404, P-90-405, and P-90-406 
combined).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance 
as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[56 FR 40214, Aug. 13, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7500  Nitrate polyether polyol (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance nitrate polyether polyol (PMN P88-
2540) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows.
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the employer 
must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods 
for protecting against such risk, into a Material Safety Data Sheet 
(MSDS) as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the 
employer becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not 
being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the employer's 
workplace, the employer must add the new information to an MSDS before 
the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who have received, or will 
receive, this substance from the employer are provided an MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing the information required under 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes 
aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (c), (h) and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 32418, Aug. 9, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7600  Alkyl(heterocyclicyl) phe ny lazohetero monocyclic
poly one (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance alkyl (heter o cyc licyl) phenyl 
azo he tero mono cyclic polyone (PMN P-85-1370) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv) through (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i) 
through (a)(6)(iii), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f) and 
(g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(v) and (g)(4). The provisions of 
Sec. 721.72(d) requiring employees to be provided with information on 
the location and availability of a written hazard communication program 
and MSDSs do not apply when the written program and MSDS are not 
required under Sec. 721.72 (a) and (c), respectively.

[[Page 427]]

    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g) (as intermediates to manufacture dyes 
for coloring pulp or paper only) and (q).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(b)(1) and (c)(1).
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(2)(iv), (b)(2)(iv) and (c)(2)(iv).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (f), (i), (j) and 
(k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 32418, Aug. 9, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7620  Alkyl(heterocyclicyl) phe nyl azohetero monocyclic 
polyone, ((alkylimidazolyl) methyl) derivative (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance alkyl (heter o cyc licyl) phenyl 
azo het ero mono cyc lic polyone, ((al kyli mi da zolyl) methyl) 
derivative (PMN P-86-136) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv) through (a)(5)(vii), 
(a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii) and (a)(6)(iii), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (b)(2), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f) 
and (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(2)(v). The 
provisions of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring employees to be provided with 
information on the location and availability of a written hazard 
communication program and MSDSs do not apply when the written program 
and MSDS are not required under Sec. 721.72 (a) and (c), respectively. 
The provision of Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific 
information on an MSDS does not apply when an MSDS is not required under 
Sec. 721.72(c).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (g), (k) and (q). The term intermediate as 
used in Sec. 721.80(g) is defined as intermediate for manufacture of 
dyes for coloring pulp or paper.
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(b)(1) and (c)(1).
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(2), (b)(2) and (c)(2).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (c), (e), (f), (i) 
and (j).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 32418, Aug. 9, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7655  Alkylsulfonium salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkylsulfonium salt (PMN P-93-1166) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 50 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),

[[Page 428]]

(b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[59 FR 27485, May 27, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7700  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), [alpha]-hydro-[omega]-
(oxiranylmethoxy)-, ether with 2-ethyl-2-(hydroxymethyl)-1,
3-propanediol (3:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as poly(oxy-1,2-
ethanediyl),[alpha]-hydro-[omega]-(oxiranylmethoxy)-, ether with 2-
ethyl-2-(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-propanediol (3:1) (PMN P-88-2188) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(viii), (a)(5)(ix), (a)(6)(ii), and 
(b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), 
(g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (l) and (q).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (b)(1), 
(b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2).
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(2)(ii), (b)(1), and (c)(1). The following may be used as alternative 
to the technologies in Sec. 721.90(a)(2)(ii): Oil and grease 
separation.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a) through (k).
    (2) Limitation of revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 19240, Apr. 25, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7710  Polyepoxy polyol.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
polyepoxy polyol (PMN P-93-364) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[59 FR 27485, May 27, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7720  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), [alpha],[alpha]'-[
(1-methylethylidene) di-4,1-phenylene] bis [[omega]-(oxiranyl
methoxy)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as poly(oxy-1,2-
ethanediyl), [alpha],[alpha]'-[(1-methylethylidene) di-4,1-phenylene] 
bis [[omega]-(oxiranylmethoxy)- (PMN P-88-2181) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(viii), (a)(5)(ix), (a)(6)(ii), and 
(b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii),

[[Page 429]]

(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), 
(g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (l) and (q).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (b)(1), 
(b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2).
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(2)(ii), (b)(1), and (c)(1). The following may be used as an 
alternative to the technologies in Sec. 721.90(a)(2)(ii): Oil and 
grease separation.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a) through (k).
    (2) Limitation of revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 19240, Apr. 25, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7770  Alkylphenoxypoly(oxyethylene) sulfuric acid ester, 
substituted amine salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as alkyl 
phenoxypoly(oxyethylene) sulfuric acid ester, substituted amine salt 
(PMN P-92-396) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Hazard communication program. 
Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), 
(g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 51707, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7780  Poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethane diyl)], [alpha],[alpha]'-
(2,2-dimethyl-1,3-pro pan ediyl)bis[[omega]-(oxi rany me thoxy)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-
ethanediyl)], [alpha],[alpha],'-(2,2-dimethyl-1,3-
propanediyl)bis[[omega]-(oxiranymethoxy)- (PMN P-88-2180) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(viii), (a)(5)(ix), (a)(6)(ii), and 
(b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), 
(g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (l) and (q).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (b)(1), 
(b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2).
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(2)(ii), (b)(1), and (c)(1). The following may be used as an 
alternative to the technologies in Sec. 721.90(a)(2)(ii): Oil and 
grease separation.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable

[[Page 430]]

to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance: Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (k).
    (2) Limitation of revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 19239, Apr. 25, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.7785  Substituted alkyl aminomethylene polyphosphonic acid,
salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted alkylamino methylene polyphosphonic acid, salt (PMN P-97-
1095) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44581, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8079  Isophorone diisocyanate neopentyl glycol adipate
polyurethane prepolymer.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
isophorone diisocyanate neopentyl glycol adipate polyurethane prepolymer 
(PMN P-94-1743) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Non-
spray uses are exempt from the provisions of this rule.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(viii), 
(a)(5)(ix), (a)(5)(x), (a)(5)(xi), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), 
and (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), 
(g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). Manufacturers, importers, and 
processors who implement the product stewardship provisions of the TSCA 
section 5(e) consent order for these substances are exempt from the 
requirements of Sec. 721.63 and Sec. 721.72.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance. Manufacturers, importers, and processors 
who implement the product stewardship provisions and keep records as 
required by the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for these substances are 
exempt from the requirements of Sec. 721.125.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.
    (4) Applicability of Sec. 721.5. The provisions of Sec. 721.5 do 
not apply to manufacturers, importers, and processors, implementing the 
product stewardship provisions in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order 
for this substance.

[63 FR 3435, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8082  Polyester polyurethane acrylate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 431]]

chemical substance identified generically as polyester polyurethane 
acrylate (PMN P-93-498) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(y)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51686, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8085  Reaction product of substituted aromatic diol, 
formaldehyde and alkanolamine, propoxylated (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as reaction 
product of substituted aromatic diol, formaldehyde and alkanolamine, 
propoxylated (PMN P-00-0202) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15088, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8090  Polyurethane polymer.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
polyurethane polymer (P-94-47) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(viii) through 
(a)(5)(xi), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[60 FR 45084, Aug. 30, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8095  Silylated polyurethane.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
silylated polyurethane (PMN P-95-1356) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(y)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 432]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3435, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8100  Potassium N,N-bis (hydroxy ethyl) cocoamine oxide
phosphate, and potassium N,N-bis (hy droxy ethyl) tal lo wa mine
oxide phos phate.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new use subject to 
reporting. (1) The following chemical substances, identified by their 
chemical names and CAS Number are subject to reporting under this part 
for the significant new use identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section: Potassium N,N-bis (hydroxyethyl) cocoamine oxide phosphate (CAS 
Number 855712-26-1), and potassium N,N-bis (hydroxyethyl) tallowamine 
oxide phosphate (CAS Number 855712-27-2).
    (2) The significant new use is: Use in a consumer product at 
concentrations greater than five percent by weight.
    (b) Specific Requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Definitions. In addition to the definitions in Sec. 721.3, the 
following definitions apply to this section:
    ``Consumer'' means any natural person who uses products for personal 
rather than business purposes.
    ``Consumer product'' means any chemical substance which is directly, 
or as part of a mixture, sold or made available to consumers for their 
use in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, in or 
around a school, or in recreation.
    (2) Persons who must report. The provisions of Sec. 721.5 apply to 
determine persons who must report under this section, except Sec. 
721.5(a)(2) does not apply to a person who intends to distribute either 
of the substances in commerce as part of a mixture at concentrations of 
five percent or less by weight of the mixture.
    (3) Notice requirements and procedures. Section 721.10 applies to 
this section, except a person submitting a notice must complete only 
Parts I and II of the notice form.

[49 FR 35018, Sept. 5, 1984. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. 
Further redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 
34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8130  Propanamide, -(2-hydroxyethyl)-3-methoxy-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as propanamide, -(2-
hydroxyethyl)-3- methoxy- (PMN P-01-144; CAS No. 35544-45-7) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (organic stripper additive).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70181, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8140  Substituted propane (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted propane (PMN P-01-298) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (polymer additive).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 433]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70181, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8145  Propane,1,1,1,2,2,3,3-heptafluoro-3-methoxy-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 
propane,1,1,1,2,2,3,3-heptafluoro-3-methoxy- (PMN P-01-320; SNUN S-04-2; 
and SNUN 11-1; CAS No. 375-03-1) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use of the 
chemical substance other than as a heating transfer fluid, refrigerant, 
flush cleaning, foam blowing, deposition coatings, histology baths, 
vapor degreasing, and industrial and commercial aerosol spray cleaning.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70181, Dec. 17, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 37165, June 30, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8153  Di-substituted propanedione (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as di-
substituted propanedione (PMN P-97-94) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (b) 
(concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v). The following statement shall appear on each 
label as specified in Sec. 721.72(b) and the MSDS as specified in Sec. 
721.72(c): This substance is expected to be dermally absorbed and may 
cause effects to the liver, kidney, adrenal glands, and the heart.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[63 FR 44581, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8155  Propanenitrile, 3-[amino, N-tallowalkyl] dipropylenetri-
and tripropylenetri- and propanenitrile, 3-[amino, (C [bdi1][bdi4]-;
[bdi1][bdi8] and C [bdi1][bdi6]-;[bdi1][bdi8] unsaturated alkyl)] 
trimethylenedi-, dipropylenetri-, and tripropylenetetra-.
          
          

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as propanenitrile, 3-
[amino, N-tallowalkyl] dipropylenetri- (PMN P-94 1238), propanenitrile, 
3-[amino, N-tallowalkyl] tripropylenetri- (PMN P-94-1239), 
propanenitrile, 3-[amino, (C<INF>14-18</INF> and C<INF>16-18</INF> 
unsaturated alkyl)] trimethylenedi- (PMN P-94-1241), propanenitrile, 3-
[amino, (C<INF>14-18</INF> and C<INF>16-18</INF> unsaturated alkyl)] 
dipropylenetri- (PMN P-94-1242), and propanenitrile, 3-[amino, 
(C<INF>14-18</INF> and C<INF>16-18</INF> unsaturated alkyl)] 
tripropylenetetra- (PMN P-94-1243) are

[[Page 434]]

subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements specified 
in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 11044, Mar. 1, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8160  Propanoic acid, 2,2-dimethyl-, ethenyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as propanoic acid, 2,2-
dimethyl-, ethenyl ester (PMN P-89-1058) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply once the 
substance has been incorporated into a polymer matrix with the level of 
residual monomer below 0.1 percent.
    (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Protection in the workplace. 
Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i) (There must 
be no permeation of the substance greater than 0.02 [micro]g/min 
[middot] cm\2\ after 8 hours of testing in accordance with the most 
current version of the American Society for Testing and Materials ASTM 
F739 ``Standard Test Method for Resistance of Protective Clothing 
Materials to Permeation by Liquids or Gases.'' For conditions of 
exposure which are intermittent, gloves may be tested in accordance with 
the most current version of ASTM F1383 ``Standard Test Method for 
Resistance of Protective Clothing Materials to Permeation by Liquids or 
Gases Under Conditions of Intermittent Contact,'' provided the contact 
time in testing is greater than or equal to the expected duration of 
dermal contact, and the purge time used in testing is less than or equal 
to the expected duration of noncontact during the intermittent cycle of 
dermal exposure in the workplace. If ASTM F1383 is used for testing, 
manufacturers, importers, and processors must submit to the Agency a 
description of worker activities involving the substance which includes 
daily frequencies and durations of potential worker exposures. The 
results of all glove permeation testing must be reported in accordance 
with the most current version of ASTM F1194 ``Guide for Documenting the 
Results of Chemical Permeation Testing of Protective Clothing 
Materials.'' Manufacturers, importers, and processors must submit all 
test data to the Agency and must receive written Agency approval for 
each type of glove tested prior to use of such gloves. The following 
gloves have been tested in accordance with the ASTM F739 method and 
found by EPA to satisfy the requirements for continuous use: Ansell 
Edmont/15-554/PVA, 0.08 cm thick; and Ansell Edmont/4h/PE/EVOH/PE 
laminate gloves, 0.006 cm thick. Gloves may not be used for a time 
period longer than they are actually tested and must be replaced at the 
end of each work shift. The following gloves have been tested in 
accordance with the ASTM 1383 method and found by EPA to satisfy the 
requirements for intermittent use: North/B-161-R/Butyl rubber gloves, 
0.04 cm thick, time period tested 2 min/h. The gloves listed may not be 
used for a time period longer than they are actually tested and must be 
replaced at the end of each work shift unless based on its review of 
data from the ASTM 1383 method, the company's personal protective 
equipment required under this paragraph, and other appropriate 
information, the Agency approves, in writing, a time period of greater 
duration.), (a)(2)(ii) (With the exception of laboratory activities, 
full body chemical protective clothing is required for any worker 
activity in which the substance is reasonably likely to contact the 
worker in the following state(s): Open liquid pool or solid of greater 
than 5 kg; liquid spray or splash; mist; aerosol dust; or any worker 
activity which has the potential for contact with the substance for more 
than 10

[[Page 435]]

min/h. At a minimum, a chemical protective apron is required for any 
worker activity with potential for contact with the substance which is 
not covered by this paragraph), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii) 
(if cartridge service life testing is not available), (a)(5)(xii) or 
(a)(5)(xiii) (if data on cartridge service life testing has been 
reviewed and approved in writing by EPA), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), 
(a)(6)(iv), and (a)(6)(v). As an alternative to the respiratory 
requirements in this section, manufacturers, importers, and processors 
may use the New Chemical Exposure Limits provisions, including sampling 
and analytical methods which have previously been approved by EPA for 
this substance, found in the 5(e) consent order for this substance.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (h)(1)(vi) (The following additional statements shall appear on 
each label required by this paragraph: The health effects of this 
material have not been fully determined but are currently being tested. 
EPA is concerned however, that this material may have serious chronic 
health and environmental effects. When using this material, use eye and 
skin protection, which includes gloves which have been determined to be 
impervious to this substance. Use respiratory protection, unless 
workplace airborne concentrations are maintained at or below an 8-h time 
weighted average (TWA) of 1 ppm, when there is a likelihood of exposure 
in the work area from dust, mist, smoke or vapor), (h)(2)(ii)(F), 
(h)(2)(ii)(G), (h)(2)(ii)(I), (h)(2)(iii)(A), (h)(2)(iii)(B), 
(h)(2)(iii)(C), (h)(2)(iii)(E), (h)(2)(iv)(A), (h)(2)(iv)(B). The 
following additional statements shall appear on each MSDS required by 
this paragraph: This substance may cause moderate skin irritation. This 
substance may cause neurotoxicity. When using this substance, use 
respiratory protection, unless workplace airborne concentrations are 
maintained at or below an 8-h TWA of 1 ppm.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 40 ppb). When calculating the 
surface water concentrations according to the instructions in Sec. 
721.91, the statement in paragraph (a)(4) that the amount of the 
substance that will be released will be calculated before the substance 
enters control technology does not apply. Instead, if the waste stream 
containing the substance will be treated before release, then the amount 
of the substance reasonably likely to be removed from the waste stream 
by such treatment may be subtracted in calculating the number of 
kilograms released. No more than 75 percent removal efficiency may be 
attributed to such treatment. In addition, when the substance is 
released in combination with the substances hexanedioic acid, diethenyl 
ester, hexanoic acid, 2-ethyl-, ethenyl ester, and neononanoic acid, 
ethenyl ester, the quotient from the formula referenced in this section 
shall not exceed the average of the quotient applicable to the other 
substances weighted by the proportion of each substance present in the 
total daily amount released.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance. Manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of the substance must document that the substance has 
been incorporated into a polymer matrix with the level of residual 
monomer below 0.1 percent if this section does not apply as described in 
paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 51707, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8175  1-Propanol, 3-mercapto-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-propanol, 3-
mercapto (PMN P-85-433; CAS No. 19721-22-3) is subject to reporting

[[Page 436]]

under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), 
(a)(5)(xii), (a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xiv), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration 
set at 1%), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1%), (f), 
(g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), 
and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (a)(3), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(3). In 
addition, a method of disposal described in Sec. 721.85 (a), (b), and 
(c) shall include: Release to an evaporation pond.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance 
as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (j).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[67 FR 17649, Apr. 11, 2002]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8225  2-Propenamide, N-[3-di- methyl amino)propyl]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenamide, N-[3-
di meth yl a mino)pro pyl]- (PMN P-86-1602) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 
0.1 percent) and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(v), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), 
(g)(2)(v), (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (o) and (q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 300 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i) and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 40215, Aug. 13, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8250  1-Propanol, 3,3'-oxybis[2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-propanol, 3,3'-
oxybis[2,2-bis(bro mo meth yl)]- (PMN P-87-1273) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3)(applies to gloves 
only), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(5)(vii), 
(a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements asspecified in Sec. 
721.72(a), (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), 
(g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). In addition, the human 
health hazard statement shall include a statement that this substance 
may cause acute and chronic toxicity.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (f) and (p). In addition,

[[Page 437]]

use other than as a flame retardant additive is a significant new use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i), and (j) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44072, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8340  Mono esters from 2- propenoic acid (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as mono 
esters from 2-propenoic acid (PMN P-01-85) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90(a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70181, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8350  2-Propenoic acid, 7-oxa bi cy clo[4.1.0]hept-3-ylmethyl
ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance 2-propenoic acid, 7-
oxabicyclo[4.1.0]hept-3-ylmethyl ester (PMN P-89-31) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(viii), (a)(5)(xv), (a)(6)(i), 
(a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(v), 
and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 46774, Nov. 6, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 62 FR 42692, Aug. 8, 1997]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8450  2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-[3-(2H-benzotriazol-
2-yl)-4-hydroxyphenyl]ethyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenoic acid, 2-
methyl-, 2-[3-(2H-benzotriazol-2-yl)-4-hydroxyphenyl]ethyl ester, (PMN 
P-90-333) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), 
(a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a),

[[Page 438]]

(b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(i), 
(g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (l) and (q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), (c)(4), (where N = 80). However, contrary to Sec. 
721.91(a)(4), if the waste stream containing the PMN substance will be 
treated using biological treatment (activated sludge or equivalent) plus 
clarification, then the amount of PMN substance reasonably likely to be 
removed from the waste stream by such treatment may be subtracted in 
calculating the number of kilograms released. No more than 75 percent 
removal efficiency may be attributed to such treatment.
    (b) Special requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 19241, Apr. 25, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 60 FR 30468, June 9, 
1995; 63 FR 45956, Aug. 28, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8485  2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, (octahydro-4,7-methano-1H-
indene-5-diyl)bis(methylene) ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenoic acid, 2-
methyl-, (octahydro-4,7-methano- 1H- indene-5-diyl)bis(methylene) ester 
(PMN P-99-1075; CAS No. 43048-08-4) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(b)(1) and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70182, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8500  2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 7-oxabicyclo [4.1.0]hept
-3-ylmethyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance 2-propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 7-
oxabicyclo[4.1.0]hept-3-ylmethyl ester (PMN P-89-30) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(viii), (a)(5)(xv), (a)(6)(i), 
(a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(v), 
and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions

[[Page 439]]

of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 46775, Nov. 6, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8657  Cerium, hydroxy oleate propionate complexes.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as Cerium, hydroxy 
oleate propionate complexes (PMN P-99-0026) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 7 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81403, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8658  Modified polymer of vinyl acetate and quaternary 
ammonium compound (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as modified 
polymer of vinyl acetate and quaternary ammonium compound (PMN P-99-
0874) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15088, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8660  Propionic acid methyl ester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
propionic acid methyl ester (PMN P-97-370) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), and (a)(3).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (f) and (j).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44581, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8670  Alkylcyano substituted pyridazo benzoate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an 
alkylcyano substituted pyridazo benzoate (PMN P-94-1129) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 440]]

    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements specified 
in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 11044, Mar. 1, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8673  [(Disubstituted phenyl)]azo dihydro hydroxy alkyl
oxo alkyl-substituted-pyridines (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
[(disubstituted phenyl)]azo dihydro hydroxy alkyl oxo alkyl-substituted-
pyridines (PMN P-95-510/511) are subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[61 FR 63739, Dec. 2, 1996]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8675  Halogenated pyridines.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
halogenated pyridine (PMN P-83-1163) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of 
this section.
    (i) The significant new uses are:
    (A) Protection in the workplace. The general requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), 
(a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(xii), (a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xiv), 
(a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(iv), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), 
and (c) apply in all cases except that Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(ii) does not 
apply for reactor sampling operations where enclosed vented sample boxes 
are used. In addition Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(iv) applies for processing of 
any byproduct generated during manufacturing, processing, or use of the 
chemical substance which contain residual amounts of the chemical 
substance.
    (B) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (C) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2). The following additional 
disposal methods also apply: Chemical destruction or, where necessary to 
ensure complete destruction of the substance, chemical destruction and 
carbon adsorption.
    (D) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (concentration set at 0.2 ppb). Where 
primary, secondary, and tertiary waste treatment will occur, or 
treatment in a lined, self-contained solar evaporation pond where UV 
light will degrade the substance, the number of kilograms per day per 
site is calculated after wastewater treatment.
    (ii) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (A) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a) through (h), (j), and (k).
    (B) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (2) The chemical substances identified generically as halogenated 
pyridines (PMN P-85-216, P-85-1184) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of 
this section.
    (i) The significant new uses are:
    (A) Protection in the workplace. The general requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), 
(a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(xii), (a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xiv),

[[Page 441]]

(a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(iv), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), 
and (c) apply in all cases except that Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(ii) does not 
apply for reactor sampling operations where enclosed vented sample boxes 
are used. In addition Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(iv) applies for processing of 
any byproduct generated during manufacturing, processing, or use of the 
chemical substance which contains residual amounts of the chemical 
substance.
    (B) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), 
(g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and 
(g)(5).
    (C) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2). The following additional 
disposal methods also apply: Chemical destruction or, where necessary to 
ensure complete destruction of the substance, chemical destruction and 
carbon adsorption.
    (D) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (concentration set at 0.2 ppb). Where 
primary, secondary, and tertiary waste treatment will occur, or 
treatment in a lined, self-contained solar evaporation pond where UV 
light will degrade the substance, the number of kilograms per day per 
site is calculated after wastewater treatment.
    (ii) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (A) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a) through (h), (j), and (k).
    (B) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (b) [Reserved]

[56 FR 23769, May 23, 1991; 56 FR 29903, July 1, 1991. Redesignated at 
58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 59 
FR 66747, Dec. 28, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8700  Pyridine, 2,3-dichloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as pyridine, 2,3-
dichloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)- (PMN P-83-237; CAS No. 69045-84-7) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The chemical substance identified generically as halogenated 
alkyl pyridine (PMN P-83-1162) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.
    (i) The significant new uses are:
    (A) Protection in the workplace. The general requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.63 (a) (1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), 
(a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(xii), (a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xiv), 
(a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(iv), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), 
and (c) apply in all cases except that Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(ii) does not 
apply for reactor sampling operations where enclosed vented sample boxes 
are used. In addition Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(iv) applies for processing of 
any byproduct generated during manufacturing, processing, or use of the 
chemical substance which contain residual amounts of the chemical 
substance.
    (B) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b) , (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), 
(g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and 
(g)(5).
    (C) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2). The following additional 
disposal methods also apply: Chemical destruction or, where necessary to 
ensure complete destruction of the substance, chemical destruction and 
carbon adsorption.
    (D) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (concentration set at 0.2 ppb). Where 
primary, secondary, and tertiary waste treatment will occur, or 
treatment in a lined, self-contained solar evaporation pond where UV 
light will degrade the substance, the number of kilograms per day per 
site is calculated after wastewater treatment.
    (ii) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (A) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable

[[Page 442]]

to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance: Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (h), (j), and (k).
    (B) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (b) [Reserved]

[56 FR 23771, May 23, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 59 FR 66747, Dec. 28, 199; 79 
FR 34638, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8750  Halogenated substituted pyridine.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
halogenated substituted pyridine (PMN P-86-838) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. The general requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), 
(a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), 
(a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(iv), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), 
and (c) apply in all cases except that Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(ii) does not 
apply for reactor sampling operations where enclosed vented sample boxes 
are used. In addition Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(iv) applies for processing of 
any byproduct generated during manufacturing, processing, or use of the 
chemical substance which contains residual amounts of the chemical 
substance.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), 
(g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), 
(g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2). The following additional 
disposal methods also apply: Chemical destruction or, where necessary to 
ensure complete destruction of the substance, chemical destruction and 
carbon adsorption.
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (concentration set at 1 ppb). Where primary, 
secondary, and tertiary waste treatment will occur, or treatment in a 
lined, self-contained solar evaporation pond where UV light will degrade 
the substance, the number of kilograms per day per site is calculated 
after wastewater treatment.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a) through (h), (j), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[56 FR 23769, May 23, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 59 FR 66747, Dec. 28, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8775  Substituted pyridines.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted pyridine (PMN P-84-1219) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of 
this section.
    (i) The significant new uses are:
    (A) Protection in the workplace. The general requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), 
(a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(xii), (a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xiv), 
(a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(iv), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), 
and (c) apply in all cases except that Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(ii) does not 
apply for reactor sampling operations where enclosed vented sample boxes 
are used. In addition Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(iv) applies for processing of 
any byproduct generated during manufacturing, processing, or use of the 
chemical substance which contains residual amounts of the chemical 
substance.
    (B) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), 
(g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and 
(g)(5).
    (C) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2). The following additional 
disposal methods also apply: Chemical destruction or, where necessary to 
ensure complete destruction

[[Page 443]]

of the substance, chemical destruction and carbon adsorption.
    (D) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (concentration set at 10 ppb). Where primary, 
secondary, and tertiary waste treatment will occur, or treatment in a 
lined, self-contained solar evaporation pond where UV light will degrade 
the substance, the number of kilograms per day per site is calculated 
after wastewater treatment.
    (ii) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (A) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a) through (h), (j), and (k).
    (B) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (2) The chemical substances identified generically as substituted 
pyridines (PMNs P-85-236 and P-85-706) are subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2)(i) of this section.
    (i) The significant new uses are:
    (A) Protection in the workplace. The general requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), 
(a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(xii), (a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xiv), 
(a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(iv), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), 
and (c) apply in all cases except that Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(ii) does not 
apply for reactor sampling operations where enclosed vented sample boxes 
are used. In addition Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(iv) applies for processing of 
any byproduct generated during manufacturing, processing, or use of the 
chemical substance which contains residual amounts of the chemical 
substance.
    (B) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), 
(g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and 
(g)(5).
    (C) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2). The following additional 
disposal methods also apply: Chemical destruction or, where necessary to 
ensure complete destruction of the substance, chemical destruction and 
carbon adsorption.
    (D) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (concentration set at 0.2 ppb). Where 
primary, secondary, and tertiary waste treatment will occur, or 
treatment in a lined, self-contained solar evaporation pond where UV 
light will degrade the substance, the number of kilograms per day per 
site is calculated after wastewater treatment.
    (ii) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (A) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a) through (h), (j), and (k).
    (B) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) The chemical substance identified generically as substituted 
pyridine (PMN P-85-36) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this 
section.
    (i) The significant new uses are:
    (A) Protection in the workplace. The general requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), 
(a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(xii), (a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xiv), 
(a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(iv), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), 
and (c) apply in all cases except that Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(ii) does not 
apply for reactor sampling operations where enclosed vented sample boxes 
are used. In addition Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(iv) applies for processing of 
any byproduct generated during manufacturing, processing, or use of the 
chemical substance which contain residual amounts of the chemical 
substance.
    (B) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), 
(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), 
(g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (C) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2). The following additional 
disposal methods also apply:

[[Page 444]]

Chemical destruction or, where necessary to ensure complete destruction 
of the substance, chemical destruction and carbon adsorption.
    (D) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (concentration set at 10 ppb). Where primary, 
secondary, and tertiary waste treatment will occur, or treatment in a 
lined, self-contained solar evaporation pond where UV light will degrade 
the substance, the number of kilograms per day per site is calculated 
after wastewater treatment.
    (ii) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (A) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a) through (h), (j), and (k).
    (B) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (4) The chemical substance identified generically as substituted 
pyridine (PMN P-85-1184) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this 
section.
    (i) The significant new uses are:
    (A) Protection in the workplace. The general requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), 
(a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(xii), (a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xiv), 
(a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(iv), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), 
and (c) apply in all cases except that Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(ii) does not 
apply for reactor sampling operations where enclosed vented sample boxes 
are used. In addition Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(iv) applies for processing of 
any byproduct generated during manufacturing, processing, or use of the 
chemical substance which contains residual amounts of the chemical 
substance.
    (B) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), 
(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), 
(g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (C) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2). The following additional 
disposal methods also apply: Chemical destruction or, where necessary to 
ensure complete destruction of the substance, chemical destruction and 
carbon adsorption.
    (D) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (concentration set at 1.3 ppb). Where 
primary, secondary, and tertiary waste treatment will occur or treatment 
in a lined, self-contained solar evaporation pond where UV light will 
degrade the substance, the number of kilograms per day per site is 
calculated after wastewater treatment.
    (ii) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (A) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a) through (h), (j), and (k).
    (B) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (b) [Reserved]

[56 FR 23770, May 23, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 59 FR 66747, Dec. 28, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8780  Substituted pyridine azo substituted phenyl.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
substituted pyridine azo substituted phenyl (PMNs P-96-767 and P-96-773) 
are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and importers of 
this substance.

[[Page 445]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3435, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8825  Substituted methylpyridine and substituted 
2-phenoxypyridine.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The following chemical substances, referred to by their 
PMN numbers and generic chemical names, are subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraphs (a)(2) 
and (3) of this section: Substituted methylpyridine (P-83-24, P-83-49, 
and P-83-272) and substituted 2-phenoxypyridine (P-83-23 and P-83-75).
    (2) The significant new uses for P-83-49 and P-83-272 are 
manufacture or processing without:
    (i) Requiring use of the following personal protective equipment for 
persons involved in any operation where dermal contact and/or inhalation 
of the substances may occur, and where local exhaust ventilation is 
present at the site of the operation:
    (A) Chemical cartridge respirator, approved by the National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health for protection from organic 
vapors, and used and fitted according to 29 CFR 1910.134 and 30 CFR part 
11.
    (B) Chemical worker gloves and aprons or other equivalent personal 
protective clothing determined to be impervious to the particular 
substance in its conditions of use. (Equipment may be determined to be 
impervious either by testing under the conditions of use, including the 
duration of exposure, or by evaluating the specifications supplied by 
the supplier of the equipment.)
    (ii) Requiring use of the following personal protective equipment 
for persons involved in and in the immediate area of any operation where 
dermal contact and/or inhalation of the substance may occur, and where 
local exhaust ventilation is not present at the site of the operation:
    (A) Full facepiece, positive pressure air-supplied respirator, 
approved by the Bureau of Mines, Department of the Interior or by the 
National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health fitted according to 
procedures established at 29 CFR 1910.134.
    (B) Chemical worker gloves and aprons, or other equivalent personal 
protective clothing determined to be impervious to the particular 
substance in its conditions of use. (Equipment may be determined to be 
impervious either by testing under the conditions of use, including the 
duration of exposure, or by evaluating the specifications supplied by 
the supplier of the equipment.)
    (iii) Notifying in writing, each employee required to use protective 
equipment that these chemical substances may present a hazard of liver, 
kidney, and nervous system toxicity unless the specified protective 
equipment is used.
    (3) The significant new uses for P-83-23, P-83-24, and P-83-75 are 
manufacture or processing without:
    (i) Requiring the use of the following personal protective equipment 
for persons involved in any operation where dermal contact may occur:
    (A) Chemical goggles.
    (B) Chemical worker gloves and aprons, or other equivalent personal 
protective clothing determined to be impervious to the particular 
substance in its conditions of use. (Equipment may be determined to be 
impervious either by testing under the conditions of use, including the 
duration of exposure, or by evaluating the specifications supplied by 
the supplier of the equipment.)
    (ii) Notifying in writing, each employee required to use protective 
equipment that these chemical substances may present a hazard of liver, 
kidney, and nervous system toxicity unless the specified protective 
equipment is used.
    (b) Specific requirements. In addition to the general provisions of 
subpart A of this part, the following specific requirements apply.
    (1) Recordkeeping. In addition to the requirements of Sec. 721.17, 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of the chemical substances 
identified in paragraph (a) of this section must maintain the following 
records for five years from the date of their creation:
    (i) The names of persons required to wear protective clothing and/or 
equipment.
    (ii) Records of respirator fit tests for each person required to 
wear a respirator.

[[Page 446]]

    (iii) The names and addresses of persons to whom any of these 
substances are sold or transferred and the date of such sale or 
transfer.
    (2) [Reserved]

[49 FR 50400, Dec. 28, 1984. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. 
Further redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 
34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8850  Disubstituted halogenated pyridinol.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
disubstituted halogenated pyridinol (PMN P-88-1274) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. The general requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), 
(a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(xii), (a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xiv), 
(a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(iv), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), 
and (c) apply in all cases except that Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(ii) does not 
apply for reactor sampling operations where enclosed vented sample boxes 
are used. In addition Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(iv) applies for processing of 
any byproduct generated during manufacturing, processing, or use of the 
chemical substance which contains residual amounts of the chemical 
substance.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), 
(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), 
(g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2). The following additional 
disposal methods also apply: Chemical destruction or, where necessary to 
ensure complete destruction of the substance, chemical destruction and 
carbon adsorption.
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (concentration set at 44 ppb). Where primary, 
secondary, and tertiary waste treatment will occur, or treatment in a 
lined, self-contained solar evaporation pond where UV light will degrade 
the substance, the number of kilograms per day per site is calculated 
after wastewater treatment.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a) through (h), (j), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[56 FR 23771, May 23, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 59 FR 66748, Dec. 28, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8875  Substituted halogenated pyridinol.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted halogenated pyridinol (PMN P-88-1273) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. The general requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), 
(a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(xii), (a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xiv), 
(a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(iv), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), 
and (c) apply in all cases except that Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(ii) does not 
apply for reactor sampling operations where enclosed vented sample boxes 
are used. In addition Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(iv) applies for processing of 
any byproduct generated during manufacturing, processing, or use of the 
chemical substance which contains residual amounts of the chemical 
substance.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), 
(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), 
(g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2). The following additional 
disposal methods also apply: Chemical destruction or, where necessary to 
ensure complete destruction of the substance, chemical destruction and 
carbon adsorption.

[[Page 447]]

    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (concentration set at 44 ppb). Where primary, 
secondary, and tertiary waste treatment will occur, or treatment in a 
lined, self-contained solar evaporation pond where UV light will degrade 
the substance, the number of kilograms per day per site is calculated 
after wastewater treatment.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a) through (h), (j), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[56 FR 23772, May 23, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 59 FR 66748, Dec. 28, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8900  Substituted halogenated pyridinol, alkali salt.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
substituted halogenated pyridinols, alkali salts (PMNs P-88-1271 and P-
88-1272) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. The general requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), 
(a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(xii), (a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xiv), 
(a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(iv), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), 
and (c) apply in all cases except that Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(ii) does not 
apply for reactor sampling operations where enclosed vented sample boxes 
are used. In addition Sec. 721.63(a)(2)(iv) applies for processing of 
any byproduct generated during manufacturing, processing, or use of the 
chemical substance which contains residual amounts of the chemical 
substance.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), 
(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), 
(g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2). The following additional 
disposal methods also apply: Chemical destruction or, where necessary to 
ensure complete destruction of the substance, chemical destruction and 
carbon adsorption.
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (concentration set at 44 ppb). Where primary, 
secondary, and tertiary waste treatment will occur, or treatment in a 
lined, self-contained solar evaporation pond where UV light will degrade 
the substance, the number of kilograms per day per site is calculated 
after wastewater treatment.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Sec. 721.125 (a) through (h), (j), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[56 FR 23772, May 23, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 59 FR 66748, Dec. 28, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8920  4,6-Disubstituted pyrimidine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 4,6-
disubstituted pyrimidine (PMN P-99-1366) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),

[[Page 448]]

(b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15088, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8940  Chromate(3-), bis[3-[[6-amino-1,4-dihydro-2-[[[4-
[(2-hydroxy-1-naphthalenyl)azo] phenyl]sulfonyl] amino]-4-(oxo-
.kappa.O)-5-pyrimidinyl]azo-.kappaN1] -4-hydroxy-.kappa.O)-5-
          
          nitrobenzenesulfonato(3-)]-, trisodium.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as chromate(3-), bis[3-
[[6-amino-1,4-dihydro-2-[[[4-[(2-hydroxy-1-naphthalenyl)azo] phenyl] 
sulfonyl]amino]-4-(oxo-.kappa.O)-5-pyrimidinyl]azo-.kappaN1] -4-
hydroxy-.kappa.O)-5-nitrobenzenesulfonato(3-)]-, trisodium (PMN P-01-
459; CAS No. 178452-72-7) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70182, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8950  Chromate(3-), bis[3-[[6-amino-1,4-dihydro-2-[[[4-
[(2-hydroxy-1-naphthalenyl)azo] phenyl]sulfonyl]amino]-4-(oxo-.kappa.O)
-5- pyrimidinyl]azo-.kappaN1]-4-hydroxy-.kappa.O)-5-         
          nitrobenzenesulfonato(3-)]-, sodium triethanolamine salts.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as chromate(3-), bis[3-
[[6-amino-1,4-dihydro-2- [[[4-[(2-hydroxy-1-naphthalenyl)azo] 
phenyl]sulfonyl]amino]-4-(oxo-.kappa.O)-5-pyrimidinyl]azo-.kappaN1] -4-
hydroxy-.kappa.O)-5-nitrobenzenesulfonato(3-)]-, sodium triethanolamine 
salts. (PMN P-01-460; CAS No. 327177-98-0) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70182, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.8965  1H-Pyrole-2, 5-dione, 1-(2,4,6-tribromophenyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1H-pyrole-2, 5-
dione, 1-(2,4,6-tribromophenyl)-, (PMN No. P-90-159) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(2)(iii) for employees likely to have ocular exposure, (a)(4), 
(a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 
0.1 percent by weight or volume), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) concentration set at 0.1 percent by 
weight or volume, (f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(v), 
(g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix) (corrosion to the eyes), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv) 
(use chemical goggles), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), (g)(4)(iii) (except the 
dewatering step during polymerization of acrylonitrile/butadiene/
styrene), and (g)(5).

[[Page 449]]

    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (a), (c), (f), (k) (any use in a system 
other than as flame retardant in styrenic, polyolefin elastomer, and 
thermoset systems), (l), and (q).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (b)(1) (by 
industrial incinerator), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2). Dispose of the PMN 
substance by industrial incinerator or landfill.
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(b)(1) and (c)(1). Section 721.90 (c)(1) does not apply to releases of 
the PMN substance during the dewatering step of the polymerization 
reactions from use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (d), and (f) through (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 32240, June 8, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9000  N-Nitrosopyrrolidine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance N-nitrosopyrrolidine (CAS No. 930-55-2) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Manufacture, import, or processing 
of 10,000 pounds or more per year per facility for any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), and (c).
    (2) [Reserved]

[58 FR 63517, Dec. 1, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9005  2-Pyrrolidinone, 1,1'-(2-methyl-1,5-pentanediyl)bis-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-pyrrolidinone, 
1,1'-(2-methyl-1,5-pentanediyl)bis- (PMN P-93-761; CAS No. 146453-62-5) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i) (There must be no permeation of the PMN 
substance greater than 0.08 grams (g)/minutes (min) centimeter (cm\2\) 
after 8 hours of testing in accordance with the most current version of 
the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) F739 ``Standard 
Test Method for Resistance of Protective Clothing Materials to 
Permeation by Liquids or Gases.'' The results of all glove permeation 
testing must be reported in accordance with the most current version of 
(ASTM) F1194 ``Guide for Documenting the Results of Chemical Permeation 
Testing of Protective Clothing Materials.'' Manufacturers, importers, 
and processors must submit such glove test data to the Agency and must 
receive written Agency approval for each type of glove tested prior to 
use of such gloves. The following gloves have been tested in accordance 
with the ASTM F739 method and found to satisfy the requirements for use 
by EPA: Ansell Edmond/8-352/Neoprene rubber, 0.097 cm thick. Gloves may 
not be used for a time period longer than they are actually tested and 
must be replaced at the end of each work shift), (a)(2)(ii), 
(a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(l)(iii), (g)(l)(iv), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), and 
(g)(5). The label and MSDS as required by this paragraph shall also 
include the following statement: This substance is expected to enhance 
the absorption of

[[Page 450]]

other chemicals into skin or other materials.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (o), (q), and (k) (use other than as a heat 
transfer fluid).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[63 FR 3435, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9010  2-pyrrolidone, 1-ethenyl-3-ethylidene-, (E)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-pyrrolidone, 1-
ethenyl-3-ethylidene-, (E)- (PMN P-96-1536; CAS No. 153954-47-3) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(2)(i) and (a)(3).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3436, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9075  Quaternary ammonium salt of fluorinated alkylaryl amide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
quaternary ammonium salt of fluorinated alkylaryl amide (PMN No. P-92-
688) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[58 FR 32241, June 8, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9078  6-Methoxy-1H-benz[de]isoquinoline-2 [3H]-dione
derivative (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 6-
methoxy-1H-benz[de]isoquinoline-2 [3H]-dione derivative (PMN P-00-1205) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 30).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70182, Dec. 17, 2003]

[[Page 451]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9079  Dihydro quinacridone derivative (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as dihydro 
quinacridone derivative (PMN P-01-397) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(s) (1,000 kg).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90(a)(4), 
(b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70182, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9080  Nitro methyl quinoline.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as nitro 
methyl quinoline (PMN P-96-1319) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), and (a)(6)(i).
    (ii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (j) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3436, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9100  Substituted quinoline.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted quinoline (PMN P-93-1183) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(c).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[59 FR 27485, May 27, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9220  Reaction products of secondary alkyl amines with a
substituted benzenesulfonic acid and sulfuric acid (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
reaction products of secondary alkyl amines with a substituted 
benzenesulfonic acid and sulfuric acid (PMNs P-89-703, P-89-755, and P-
89-756) are subject to reporting under this section for significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Uses as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 452]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of these 
substances: Recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), 
(b), (c), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 17381, Apr. 24, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9265  Reaction product of dichlorobenzidine and substituted
alkylamide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
reaction product of dichlorobenzidine and substituted alkylamide (PMN P-
95-1282) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g)(5). The label and MSDS as 
required by this paragraph shall also include the following statements: 
At temperatures above 200 [deg]C, this substance decomposes to produce a 
suspect human carcinogen, 3',3' dichlorobenzidine. Do not heat above 200 
[deg]C or 392 [deg]F.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(f) and processing or use of the PMN 
substance at temperatures above 200 [deg]C.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3436, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9270  Reaction product of epoxy with anhydride and glycerol
and glycol.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as reaction 
product of epoxy with anhydride and glycerol and glycol (PMN P-96-1233) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), (x)(1) and (y)(2).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3436, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9280  Reaction product of ethoxylated fatty acid oils
and a phenolic pentaerythritol tetraester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
reaction product of ethoxylated fatty acid oils and a phenolic 
pentaerythritol tetraester (PMN P-92-63) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance may present a risk of injury to human

[[Page 453]]

health, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into an MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not being 
manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, 
the employer must add the new information to an MSDS before the 
substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who have received, or will 
receive, this substance from the employer are provided an MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing the information required under 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the 
employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44072, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9285  Schiff bases, from ammonia-diethylene glycol reaction
product fractionation forecuts and formaldehyde.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as schiff bases, from 
ammonia-diethylene glycol reaction product fractionation forecuts and 
formaldehyde (PMN P-95-535; CAS No. 172343-36-1) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3436, Jan. 22, 1998, as amended at 79 FR 34638, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9300  Reaction products of substituted hydroxy alkanes and
polyalkylpolyisocyanatocarbomono- cycle.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as reaction 
products of substituted hydroxy alkanes and polyal- kylpoly isocyanato 
carbo mono cycle (PMN P-91-75) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the employer 
must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods 
for protecting against such risk, into an MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the 
new information. If this substance is not being manufactured, imported, 
processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add 
the new information to an MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into 
the workplace.

[[Page 454]]

    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive this 
substance from the employer are provided an MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (volume set at 433,000 kg).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[57 FR 44073, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9400  Reaction product of phenolic pentaerythritol tetraesters
with fatty acid esters and oils, and glyceride triesters.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
Reaction product of phenolic pentaerythritol tetraesters with fatty acid 
esters and oils, and glyceride triesters (PMNs P-91-1231,-1232,-1233,-
1234, and-1235) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the employer 
must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods 
for protectintg against such risk, into an MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the 
new information. If this substance is not being manufactured, imported, 
processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add 
the new information to an MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into 
the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive this 
substance, or who have received this substance from the employer within 
5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of the new information 
described in section (a)(2)(i)(A) of this subparagraph, are provided an 
MSDS as described in Sec. 721.72(c) containing the information required 
under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the 
time the employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.575(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44073, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9460  Tall oil fatty acids, reaction products with
polyamines, alkyl substituted.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as tall oil 
fatty acids, reaction products with polyamines, alkyl substituted (PMN 
P-91-225) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a),

[[Page 455]]

(b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q) and any use in a manner that will result 
in overspray over or into waters of the United States.
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), (c)(1), or use in any manner that will result in 
overspray over or into waters of the United States.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (f) through (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44074, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9470  Reserpine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance reserpine (CAS No. 50-555) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Manufacture, import, or processing 
of 10,000 pounds or more per year per facility for any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), and (c).
    (2) [Reserved]

[58 FR 63517, Dec. 1, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9480  Formaldehyde, polymer with 1,3-benzenediol and ethenylbenzene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as formaldehyde, 
polymer with 1,3-benzenediol and ethenylbenzene (PMN P-89-769; CAS No. 
135020-80-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 39905, Sept. 28, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 67 FR 12885, Mar. 20, 
2002; 79 FR 34638, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9484  Dimer acid/rosin amidoamine reaction product (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as Dimer 
acid/rosin amidoamine reaction product (PMN P-99-0143) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),

[[Page 456]]

(b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81403, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9485  Dimer acid/polymerized rosin amidoamine reaction
product (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as Dimer 
acid/polymerized rosin amidoamine reaction product (PMN P-99-0144) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81403, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9486  Rosin amidoamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as Rosin 
amidoamine (PMN P-99-0145) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81404, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9487  Polymerized rosin amidoamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
Polymerized rosin amidoamine (PMN P-99-0146) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81404, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9488  Substituted resorcinols.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
substituted resorcinols (PMNs P-95-1103, P-95-1104, and P-96-1235) are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 9).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 457]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. The recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3437, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9490  Coco alklydimethyl amine salts (generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as coco 
alkyldimethyl amine salts (PMNs P-98-412/414/415/416/417) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44582, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9492  Certain polymers of styrene, cyclohexyl methacrylate
and substituted methacrylate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as 2-propenoic acid, 
2-methyl-, cyclohexyl ester, polymer with ethenylbenzene and 2-
oxiranylmethyl 2-methyl-2-propenoate, tert-Bu 2-ethylhexaneperoxoate-
initiated (PMN P-97-143; CAS No. 1078715-90-8) and as 2-propenoic acid, 
2-methyl-, cyclohexyl ester, polymer with ethenylbenzene, 4-hydroxybutyl 
2-propenoate and 2-oxiranylmethyl 2-methyl-2-propenoate, tert-Bu 2-
ethylhexaneperoxoate-initiated (PMN P-97-144; CAS No. 1078715-62-4) are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3437, Jan. 22, 1998, as amended at 79 FR 34638, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9495  Acrylosilane resins.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as acrylosilane resins 
(PMNs P-95-1024/1040) are subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(l).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[61 FR 63740, Dec. 2, 1996]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9497  Certain trifunctional ketoximino silanes.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
trifunctional ketoximino silane (PMN P-95-0605) and as 2-

[[Page 458]]

pentanone, 4-methyl-, O,O',O''-(methylsilylidyne)trioxime (PMN P-95-
0606; CAS No. 37859-57-7) are subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), and (a)(3).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3437, Jan. 22, 1998, as amended at 79 FR 34638, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9499  Modified silicone resin.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
modified silicone resin (PMN P-96-1649) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 5).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3437, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9500  Silane, (1,1-dimethylethoxy) dimethoxy(2-methyl propyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance silane, (1,1-dimethylethoxy) 
dimethoxy (2-methylpropyl)- (PMN P-89-906) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv) through (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i) through 
(a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), 
(h), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 46775, Nov. 6, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9501  Silane, triethoxy[3-oxiranylmethoxy)propyl]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as silane, triethoxy[3-
oxiranylmethoxy)propyl]- (PMN P-01-781; CAS No. 2602-34-8) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(y)(l).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90(a)(4), 
(b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).

[[Page 459]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70183, Dec. 17, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 37165, June 30, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9502  Siloxanes and silicones, aminoalkyl, fluorooctyl,
hydroxy-terminated salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
siloxanes and silicones, aminoalkyl, fluorooctyl, hydroxy-terminated 
salt (PMN P-00-1132 and SNUN S-11-5) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(y)(1). A significant new use is any use of the 
chemical substance other than in graffiti systems, as surface treatment 
and additive for coatings, adhesives, sealants, paste, insulation and 
textiles for porous, non-porous, ceramic, metal, glass, plastic, wood 
and leather surfaces or a surface treatment agent for inorganic filler 
particles.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[68 FR 15088, Mar. 28, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 37165, June 30, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9503  Silane, (3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,9,9,10,10,10-
heptadecafluorodecyl)trimethoxy-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as silane, 
(3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,9,9,10,10,10-heptadecafluorodecyl) trimethoxy- 
(PMN P-97-264; CAS No. 83048-65-1) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(xii), (a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xv), 
(a)(6)(ii), and (a)(6)(v).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3437, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9504  Silane, triethoxy (3,3,4,4,5,5, 6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
tridecafluorooctyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as silane, triethoxy 
(3,3,4,4,5, 5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-tridecafluorooctyl)- (PMN P-99-1346; CAS No. 
51851-37-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(xii), and (a)(5)(xiii).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),(b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to

[[Page 460]]

manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15088, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9505  Silanes substituted macrocycle polyethyl.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as silanes 
substituted macrocycle polyethyl (PMNs P-93-1423, 1424, 1425, and 1426) 
are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements specified 
in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 11045, Mar. 1, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9506  Halogenated arylsilane (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
halogenated arylsilane (PMN P-01-9) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(1) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90(a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70183, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9507  Polyester silane.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as a polyester silane 
(P-95-1022) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(l).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[61 FR 63740, Dec. 2, 1996]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9508  Perfluorinatedalkyl polyhydroxysilane (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
perfluorinatedalkyl polyhydroxysilane (PMN P-95-1400) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), 
(g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(v), (g)(5). The following statement shall appear on each label as 
specified in Sec. 721.72(b) and the MSDS as specified in Sec. 
721.72(c): This substance may cause death if inhaled.

[[Page 461]]

    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(y)(1). Use in any formulation that contains 
alkylbenzenesulfonate emulsifiers.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), 
and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 372, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9509  Perfluorinatedalkyl polyalkoxysilane (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
perfluorinatedalkyl polyalkoxysilane (PMN P-95-1410) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), 
(g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(v), (g)(5). The following statement shall appear on each label as 
specified in Sec. 721.72(b) and the MSDS as specified in Sec. 
721.72(c): This substance may cause death if inhaled.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(y)(1). Use in any formulation that contains 
alkylbenzenesulfonate emulsifiers.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance 
as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 372, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9511  Silicic acid (H [bdi6]SiO [bdi2]O [bdi7]), magnesium,
strontium salt(1:1:2), dysprosium and europium-doped.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as silicic acid 
(H<INF>6</INF>SiO<INF>2</INF>O<INF>7</INF>) magnesium, strontium 
salt(1:1:2), dysprosium and europium-doped. (PMN P-98-848; CAS 
No.181828-07-9) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (manufacture or import of the chemical 
substance where greater than 5% of the chemical substance is below the 
10 micron (respirable particles) threshold).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70183, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9513  Modified magnesium silicate polymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as modified 
magnesium silicate polymer (PMN P-98-604) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),

[[Page 462]]

(b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 372, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9514  Ethyl silicate, reaction products with modified
alkoxysilane salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as Ethyl 
silicate, reaction products with modified alkoxysilane salt (PMN P-99-
0157) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81404, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9515  Aminofunctional alkoxy alkyl siloxane.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an 
aminofunctional alkoxy alkyl siloxane (PMN P-96-346) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3437, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9516  Siloxanes and silicones, 3-[(2-aminoethyl) amino]propyl
Me, di-Me, reaction products with polyethylene-polypropylene glycol
Bu glycidal ether.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
siloxanes and silicones, 3-[(2-aminoethyl) amino]propyl Me, di-Me, 
reaction products with polyethylene-polypropylene glycol Bu glycidyl 
ether (PMN P-97-740; CAS No. 189354-73-2) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(y)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44582, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9517  Siloxanes and silicones, de-Me, 3-[4-[[[3-(dimethyl
amino) propyl] amino]carbonyl]-2-oxo-1-pyrrolidinyl] propyl Me.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as siloxanes and 
silicones, de-Me, 3-[4-[[[3-(dimethylamino) propyl]amino] carbonyl]-2-
oxo-1-pyrrolidinyl]propyl Me (PMN P-97-332) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.

[[Page 463]]

    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(y)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44582, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9518  Sinorhizobium meliloti strain RMBPC-2.

    (a) Microorganism and significant new uses subject to reporting. (1) 
The microorganism identified as Sinorhizobium meliloti strain RMBPC-2 
(PMN P-92-403) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Commercial activities before submitting a TSCA section 5(a) 
notice. For any manufacturer or importer who has not previously 
submitted a premanufacture notice or significant new use notice for this 
microorganism, the significant new use is any use.
    (ii) Commercial activities after submitting a TSCA section 5(a) 
notice. For any manufacturer or importer who has previously submitted a 
premanufacture notice or a significant new use notice for this 
microorganism, the significant new use is manufacture, import, or 
processing greater than a maximum production volume of 500,000 lbs in 
any consecutive 12-month period.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Persons who must report. Section 721.5 applies to this section 
except for Sec. 721.5(a)(2). A person who intends to manufacture or 
import this substance for commercial purposes must have submitted a 
premanufacture notice or submit a significant new use notice.
    (2) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and importers of 
this substance.
    (3) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 29648, June 1, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9520  Methylated-para-rosaniline salt of a trisulfonated
triarylmethane dye (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
methylated-para-rosaniline salt of a trisulfonated triarylmethane dye 
(PMN P-00-0559) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), (c)(4) (N = 2 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15088, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9526  Sodium perthiocarbonate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as sodium 
perthiocarbonate (PMN P-94-2166) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 464]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 45084, Aug. 30, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9527  Bis(1,2,2,6,6-pentamethyl-4-piperidin-4-ol)
ester of cy clo ali phatic spiroketal.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
bis(1,2,2,6,6-pentamethyl-4-piperidin-4-ol) ester of cycloaliphatic 
spiroketal (PMN No. P-91-1361) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. For manufacturing workers only, 
requirements as specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(i), 
and (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent). For processing/use workers 
only, requirements as specified in Sec. 721.63(a)(4), (a)(5)(iv), 
(a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 
1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), 
(g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5). The following additional statements 
shall appear on each label and MSDS required by this paragraph: This 
substance may cause systemic effects, eye irritation.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(l).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (d), (f) through (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 32241, June 8, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9530  Bis(2,2,6,6-tetra methyl piper idinyl) ester of
cycloalkyl spir o ke tal.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
bis(2,2,6,6-tetramethyl pi per idin yl) ester of cy clo alkyl spir o ke 
tal (PMN P-88-0083) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. For the manufacturing workers only, 
requirements as specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(i), 
and (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent). For the processing/use 
workers only, requirements as specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(4), 
(a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i), (b) 
(concentration set at 1.0 per cent) and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), 
(g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5). The following additional human 
health hazard statements shall appear on each label and MSDS required by 
this paragraph: This substance may cause: systemic effects, eye 
irritation.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(l).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in

[[Page 465]]

Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[56 FR 40215, Aug. 13, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9535  1,4-Dioxa-7,9-dithia-8-stannacycloundecane-5,11-dione,
8,8-dioctyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as a 1,4-Dioxa-7,9-
dithia-8-stannacycloundecane-5,11-dione, 8,8-dioctyl- (PMN P-99-0093; 
CAS No. 56875-68-4) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) and (f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[65 FR 81404, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9538  Lithium salt of sulfophenyl azo phenyl azo
disulfostilbene (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as lithium 
salt of sulfophenyl azo phenyl azo disulfostilbene (PMN P-00-0698) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(2), (w)(2), (x)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15088, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9540  Polysulfide mixture.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
polysulfide mixture (PMN P-93-1043) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If, as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) 
consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this 
substance may present a risk of injury to human health, or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into the 
applicable Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the 
new information. If this substance is not being manufactured, imported, 
processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add 
the new information to an MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into 
the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive, or who 
have received this substance from the employer within 5 years from the 
date the

[[Page 466]]

employer becomes aware of the new information described in paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, are provided an MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the Company 
becomes aware of the new information. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), and (g)(4)(iii).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (153,000 kg).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements specified 
in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), (k) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 11045, Mar. 1, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9545  Substituted phenyl azo substituted sulfocarbopolycle,
sodium salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted phenyl azo substituted sulfocarbopolycle, sodium salt (PMN 
P-96-1263) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3437, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9550  Sulfonamide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance generically identified as a 
sulfonamide (PMN P-90-1732) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3), (a)(4), 
(a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i), (b) 
(concentration set at 1.0 percent) and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), 
(g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), (g)(4)(ii), and 
(g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 10 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44074, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9570  Halophenyl sulfonamide salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
halophenyl sulfonamide salt

[[Page 467]]

(PMN P-90-1730) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and 
(g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (g) and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements as 
specified at Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) 
are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 31970, July 20, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 
FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9572  Substituted alkyl sulfonamide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted alkyl sulfonamide (PMN P-00-838) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70183, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9573  Substituted perfluoroalkyl sulfonamide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted perfluoroalkyl sulfonamide (PMN P-98-645) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[65 FR 372, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9575  Chromate(3-), bis[3-[[5-(aminosulfonyl)-2-hydroxyphenyl]
azo]-4-hydroxy-7-[[2-oxo-1-[(phenylamino)carbonyl] propyl]azo]-2-
naphthalenesulfonato(3-)]-, trisodium (9CI).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as chromate(3-), bis[3-
[[5-(aminosulfonyl)-2-hydroxyphenyl]azo]-4-hydroxy-7-[[2-oxo-1-
[(phenylamino)carbonyl] propyl]azo]-2-naphthalene sulfonato(3-)]-, 
trisodium (9CI) (PMN P-95-1575; CAS No. 119535-63-6) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 468]]

    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3438, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9576  Chromate(3-), bis[7-[(aminohydroxyphenyl)azo]-3-
[[5-(aminosulfonyl)-2-hydroxyphenyl]azo]-4-hydroxy-2-naphthalene
-sulfonato (3-)]-, trisodium (9CI).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as chromate(3-), bis[7-
[(aminohydroxyphenyl)azo]-3-[[5-(aminosulfonyl)-2-hydroxyphenyl]azo]-4-
hydroxy-2-naphthalene-sulfonato (3-)]-, trisodium (9CI) (PMN P-95-1576; 
CAS No. 118716-62-4) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3438, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9577  Chromate(3-), bis[7-[(aminohydroxyphenyl)azo]-3-[[5-
(aminosulfonyl)-2-hydroxyphenyl] azo]-4-hydroxy-2-naphthalene
sulfonato (3-)]-,-[[5-(aminosulfonyl) -2-hydroxyphenyl]azo]-4-hydroxy
-7-[[2-hydroxy-1-[(phenylamino) carbonyl]-1-propenyl]azo]-2-
 naphthalenesulfonato(3-)]-, trisodium (9CI).
          
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as chromate(3-), bis[7-
[(aminohydroxyphenyl)azo]-3-[[5-(aminosulfonyl)-2-hydroxy phenyl] azo]-
4-hydroxy-2-naphthalenesulfonato (3-)]-,-[[5-(aminosulfonyl) -2-
hydroxyphenyl]azo]-4-hydroxy-7-[[2-hydroxy-1-[(phenylamino) carbonyl]-1-
propenyl]azo]-2-naphthalene sulfonato(3-)]-, trisodium (9CI) (PMN P-95-
1577; CAS No. 118716-61-3) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3438, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9580  Ethyl methanesulfonate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance ethyl methanesulfonate (CAS No. 62-50-0) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Manufacture, import, or processing 
of 10,000 pounds or more per year per facility for any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 469]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), and (c).
    (2) [Reserved]

[58 FR 63518, Dec. 1, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9582  Certain perfluoroalkyl sulfonates.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances listed in Table 1, Table 2, Table 
3, and Table 4 of this section are subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.

Table 1--PFAS Chemicals Subject to Reporting on or After January 1, 2001
------------------------------------------------------------------------
            CAS No./PMN                CAS Ninth Collective Index Name
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2250-98-8                           1-Octanesulfonamide, N,N',N''-
                                     [phosphinylidynetris(oxy-2,1-
                                     ethanediyl)]tris[N-ethyl-
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                     heptadecafluoro-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
30381-98-7                          1-Octanesulfonamide, N,N'-
                                     [phosphinicobis(oxy-2,1-
                                     ethanediyl)]bis[N-ethyl-
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                     heptadecafluoro-, ammonium salt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
57589-85-2                          Benzoic acid, 2,3,4,5-tetrachloro-6-
                                     [[[3-
                                     [[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]ox
                                     y]phenyl]amino]carbonyl]-,
                                     monopotassium salt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
61660-12-6                          1-Octanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                     heptadecafluoro-N-[3-
                                     (trimethoxysilyl)propyl]-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67969-69-1                          1-Octanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                     heptadecafluoro-N-[2-
                                     (phosphonooxy)ethyl]-, diammonium
                                     salt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68608-14-0                          Sulfonamides, C4-8-alkane,
                                     perfluoro, N-ethyl-N-
                                     (hydroxyethyl), reaction products
                                     with 1,1'-methylenebis[4-
                                     isocyanatobenzene]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
70776-36-2                          2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-,
                                     octadecyl ester, polymer with 1,1-
                                     dichloroethene, 2-
                                     [[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]me
                                     thylamino]ethyl 2-propenoate, N-
                                     (hydroxymethyl)-2-propenamide, 2-
                                     [methyl[(nonafluorobutyl)sulfonyl]a
                                     mino]ethyl 2-propenoate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulf
                                     onyl]amino]ethyl 2-propenoate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(tridecafluorohexyl)sulfony
                                     l]amino]ethyl 2-propenoate and 2-
                                     [methyl[(undecafluoropentyl)sulfony
                                     l]amino]ethyl 2-propenoate
------------------------------------------------------------------------
127133-66-8                         2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-,
                                     polymers with Bu methacrylate,
                                     lauryl methacrylate and 2-
                                     [methyl[(perfluoro-C4-8-
                                     alkyl)sulfonyl]amino]ethyl
                                     methacrylate
------------------------------------------------------------------------
148240-78-2                         Fatty acids, C18-unsatd., trimers, 2-
                                     [[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]me
                                     thylamino]ethyl esters
------------------------------------------------------------------------
148684-79-1                         Sulfonamides, C4-8-alkane,
                                     perfluoro, N-(hydroxyethyl)-N-
                                     methyl, reaction products with 1,6-
                                     diisocyanatohexane homopolymer and
                                     ethylene glycol
------------------------------------------------------------------------
178535-22-3                         Sulfonamides, C4-8-alkane,
                                     perfluoro, N-ethyl-N-
                                     (hydroxyethyl), polymers with 1,1'-
                                     methylenebis[4-isocyanatobenzene]
                                     and polymethylenepolyphenylene
                                     isocyanate, 2-ethylhexyl esters, Me
                                     Et ketone oxime-blocked
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-94-2205                           Polymethylenepolyphenylene
                                     isocyanate and bis(4-NCO-
                                     phenyl)methane reaction products
                                     with 2-ethyl-1-hexanol, 2-butanone,
                                     oxime, N-ethyl-N-(2- hydroxyethyl)-
                                     1-C4-C8 perfluoroalkanesulfonamide
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-96-1645                           Fatty acids, C18-unsatd., dimers, 2-
306974-63-0.......................   [methyl[(perfluoro-C4-8-
                                     alkyl)sulfonyl]amino]ethyl esters
------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table 2--PFAS Chemicals Subject to Reporting on or After January 1, 2003
------------------------------------------------------------------------
            CAS No./PMN                CAS Ninth Collective Index Name
------------------------------------------------------------------------
307-35-7                            1-Octanesulfonyl fluoride,
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                     heptadecafluoro-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
307-51-7                            1-Decanesulfonyl fluoride,
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,9,9
                                     ,10,10,10-heneicosafluoro-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
376-14-7                            2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
                                     [ethyl[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfon
                                     yl]amino]ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
383-07-3                            2-Propenoic acid, 2-
                                     [butyl[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfon
                                     yl]amino]ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
423-50-7                            1-Hexanesulfonyl fluoride,
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                     tridecafluoro-
------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 470]]

 
423-82-5                            2-Propenoic acid, 2-
                                     [ethyl[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfon
                                     yl]amino]ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
754-91-6                            1-Octanesulfonamide,
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                     heptadecafluoro-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
1652-63-7                           1-Propanaminium, 3-
                                     [[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]am
                                     ino]-N,N,N-trimethyl-, iodide
------------------------------------------------------------------------
1691-99-2                           1-Octanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                     heptadecafluoro-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
1763-23-1                           1-Octanesulfonic acid,
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                     heptadecafluoro-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2795-39-3                           1-Octanesulfonic acid,
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                     heptadecafluoro-, potassium salt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2991-51-7                           Glycine, N-ethyl-N-
                                     [(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]-,
                                     potassium salt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
4151-50-2                           1-Octanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                     heptadecafluoro-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
14650-24-9                          2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
                                     [[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]me
                                     thylamino]ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
17202-41-4                          1-Nonanesulfonic acid,
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,9,9
                                     ,9-nonadecafluoro-, ammonium salt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
24448-09-7                          1-Octanesulfonamide,
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                     heptadecafluoro-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-
                                     N-methyl-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
25268-77-3                          2-Propenoic acid, 2-
                                     [[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]me
                                     thylamino]ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
29081-56-9                          1-Octanesulfonic acid,
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                     heptadecafluoro-, ammonium salt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
29117-08-6                          Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-[2-
                                     [ethyl[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfon
                                     yl]amino]ethyl]-.omega.-hydroxy-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
29457-72-5                          1-Octanesulfonic acid,
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                     heptadecafluoro-, lithium salt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
31506-32-8                          1-Octanesulfonamide,
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                     heptadecafluoro-N-methyl-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
38006-74-5                          1-Propanaminium, 3-
                                     [[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]am
                                     ino]-N,N,N-trimethyl-, chloride
------------------------------------------------------------------------
38850-58-7                          1-Propanaminium, N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-
                                     N,N-dimethyl-3-[(3-
                                     sulfopropyl)[(tridecafluorohexyl)su
                                     lfonyl]amino]-, inner salt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
55120-77-9                          1-Hexanesulfonic acid,
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                     tridecafluoro-, lithium salt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67584-42-3                          Cyclohexanesulfonic acid,
                                     decafluoro(pentafluoroethyl)-,
                                     potassium salt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67906-42-7                          1-Decanesulfonic acid,
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,9,9
                                     ,10,10,10-heneicosafluoro-,
                                     ammonium salt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68156-01-4                          Cyclohexanesulfonic acid,
                                     nonafluorobis(trifluoromethyl)-,
                                     potassium salt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68298-62-4                          2-Propenoic acid, 2-
                                     [butyl[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfon
                                     yl]amino]ethyl ester, telomer with
                                     2-
                                     [butyl[(pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfo
                                     nyl]amino]ethyl 2-propenoate,
                                     methyloxirane polymer with oxirane
                                     di-2-propenoate, methyloxirane
                                     polymer with oxirane mono-2-
                                     propenoate and 1-octanethiol
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68329-56-6                          2-Propenoic acid, eicosyl ester,
                                     polymer with 2-
                                     [[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]me
                                     thylamino]ethyl 2-propenoate,
                                     hexadecyl 2-propenoate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(nonafluorobutyl)sulfonyl]a
                                     mino]ethyl 2-propenoate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulf
                                     onyl]amino]ethyl 2-propenoate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(tridecafluorohexyl)sulfony
                                     l]amino]ethyl 2-propenoate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(undecafluoropentyl)sulfony
                                     l]amino]ethyl 2-propenoate and
                                     octadecyl 2-propenoate
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68541-80-0                          2-Propenoic acid, polymer with 2-
                                     [ethyl[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfon
                                     yl]amino]ethyl 2-methyl-2-
                                     propenoate and octadecyl 2-
                                     propenoate
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68555-90-8                          2-Propenoic acid, butyl ester,
                                     polymer with 2-
                                     [[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]me
                                     thylamino]ethyl 2-propenoate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(nonafluorobutyl)sulfonyl]a
                                     mino]ethyl 2-propenoate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulf
                                     onyl]amino]ethyl 2-propenoate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(tridecafluorohexyl)sulfony
                                     l]amino]ethyl 2-propenoate and 2-
                                     [methyl[(undecafluoropentyl)sulfony
                                     l]amino]ethyl 2-propenoate
------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 471]]

 
68555-91-9                          2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
                                     [ethyl[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfon
                                     yl]amino]ethyl ester, polymer with
                                     2-
                                     [ethyl[(nonafluorobutyl)sulfonyl]am
                                     ino] ethyl 2-methyl-2-propenoate, 2-
                                     [ethyl[(pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfo
                                     nyl]amino]ethyl 2-methyl-2-
                                     propenoate, 2-
                                     [ethyl[(tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl
                                     ]amino]ethyl 2-methyl-2-propenoate,
                                     2-
                                     [ethyl[(undecafluoropentyl)sulfonyl
                                     ]amino]ethyl 2-methyl-2-propenoate
                                     and octadecyl 2-methyl-2-propenoate
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68555-92-0                          2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
                                     [[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]me
                                     thylamino]ethyl ester, polymer with
                                     2-
                                     [methyl[(nonafluorobutyl)sulfonyl]a
                                     mino]ethyl 2-methyl-2-propenoate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulf
                                     onyl]amino]ethyl 2-methyl-2-
                                     propenoate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(tridecafluorohexyl)sulfony
                                     l]amino]ethyl 2-methyl-2-
                                     propenoate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(undecafluoropentyl)sulfony
                                     l]amino]ethyl 2-methyl-2-propenoate
                                     and octadecyl 2-methyl-2-propenoate
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68586-14-1                          2-Propenoic acid, 2-
                                     [[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]me
                                     thylamino]ethyl ester, telomer with
                                     2-
                                     [methyl[(nonafluorobutyl)sulfonyl]a
                                     mino]ethyl 2-propenoate, .alpha.-(2-
                                     methyl-1-oxo-2-propenyl)-.omega.-
                                     hydroxypoly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl),
                                     .alpha.-(2-methyl-1-oxo-2-propenyl)-
                                     .omega.-[(2-methyl-1-oxo-2-
                                     propenyl)oxy]poly(oxy-1,2-
                                     ethanediyl), 2-
                                     [methyl[(pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulf
                                     onyl]amino]ethyl 2-propenoate, 2-
                                     [methyl[
                                     (tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]amino]
                                     ethyl 2-propenoate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(undecafluoropentyl)sulfony
                                     l]amino]ethyl 2-propenoate and 1-
                                     octanethiol
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68649-26-3                          1-Octanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                     heptadecafluoro-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-
                                     , reaction products with N-ethyl-
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,4-nonafluoro-N-(2-
                                     hydroxyethyl)-1-butanesulfonamide,
                                     N-ethyl-
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                     pentadecafluoro-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-
                                     1-heptanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                     tridecafluoro-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-
                                     hexanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-undecafluoro-
                                     N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-
                                     pentanesulfonamide,
                                     polymethylenepolyphenylene
                                     isocyanate and stearyl alc.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68867-60-7                          2-Propenoic acid, 2-
                                     [[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]me
                                     thylamino]ethyl ester, polymer with
                                     2-
                                     [methyl[(nonafluorobutyl)sulfonyl]a
                                     mino]ethyl 2-propenoate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulf
                                     onyl]amino]ethyl 2-propenoate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(tridecafluorohexyl)sulfony
                                     l]amino]ethyl 2-propenoate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(undecafluoropentyl)sulfony
                                     l]amino]ethyl 2-propenoate and
                                     .alpha.-(1-oxo-2-propenyl)-.omega.-
                                     methoxypoly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68867-62-9                          2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
                                     [ethyl[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfon
                                     yl]amino]ethyl ester, telomer with
                                     2-
                                     [ethyl[(nonafluorobutyl)sulfonyl]am
                                     ino]ethyl 2-methyl-2-propenoate, 2-
                                     [ethyl[(pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfo
                                     nyl]amino]ethyl 2-methyl-2-
                                     propenoate, 2-
                                     [ethyl[(tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl
                                     ]amino]ethyl 2-methyl-2-propenoate,
                                     2-
                                     [ethyl[(undecafluoropentyl)sulfonyl
                                     ]amino]ethyl 2-methyl-2-propenoate,
                                     1-octanethiol and .alpha.-(1-oxo-2-
                                     propenyl)-.omega.-methoxypoly(oxy-
                                     1,2-ethanediyl)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68891-96-3                          Chromium, diaquatetrachloro[.mu.-[N-
                                     ethyl-N-
                                     [(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]gly
                                     cinato-.kappa.O:.kappa.O']]-.mu.-
                                     hydroxybis(2-methylpropanol)di-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68909-15-9                          2-Propenoic acid, eicosyl ester,
                                     polymers with branched octyl
                                     acrylate, 2-
                                     [[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]me
                                     thylamino]ethyl acrylate, 2-[methyl
                                     [(nonafluorobutyl)sulfonyl]amino]et
                                     hyl acrylate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulf
                                     onyl]amino]ethyl acrylate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(tridecafluorohexyl)sulfony
                                     l]amino]ethyl acrylate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(undecafluoropentyl)sulfony
                                     l]amino]ethyl acrylate,
                                     polyethylene glycol acrylate Me
                                     ether and stearyl acrylate
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68958-61-2                          Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-[2-
                                     [ethyl[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfon
                                     yl]amino]ethyl]-.omega.-methoxy-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
70225-14-8                          1-Octanesulfonic acid,
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                     heptadecafluoro-, compd. with 2,2'-
                                     iminobis[ethanol] (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
71487-20-2                          2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, methyl
                                     ester, polymer with ethenylbenzene,
                                     2-
                                     [[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]me
                                     thylamino]ethyl 2-propenoate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(nonafluorobutyl)sulfonyl]a
                                     mino]ethyl 2-propenoate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulf
                                     onyl]amino]ethyl 2-propenoate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(tridecafluorohexyl)sulfony
                                     l]amino]ethyl 2-propenoate, 2-
                                     [methyl[(undecafluoropentyl)sulfony
                                     l]amino]ethyl 2-propenoate and 2-
                                     propenoic acid
------------------------------------------------------------------------
73772-32-4                          1-Propanesulfonic acid, 3-[[3-
                                     (dimethylamino)propyl][(tridecafluo
                                     rohexyl)sulfonyl]amino]-2-hydroxy-,
                                     monosodium salt
------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 472]]

 
81190-38-7                          1-Propanaminium, N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-
                                     3-[(2-hydroxy-3-
                                     sulfopropyl)[(tridecafluorohexyl)su
                                     lfonyl]amino]-N,N-dimethyl-,
                                     hydroxide, monosodium salt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
91081-99-1                          Sulfonamides, C4-8-alkane,
                                     perfluoro, N-(hydroxyethyl)-N-
                                     methyl, reaction products with
                                     epichlorohydrin, adipates (esters)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
94133-90-1                          1-Propanesulfonic acid, 3-[[3-
                                     (dimethylamino)propyl][(heptadecafl
                                     uorooctyl)sulfonyl]amino]-2-hydroxy-
                                     , monosodium salt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
98999-57-6                          Sulfonamides, C7-8-alkane,
                                     perfluoro, N-methyl-N-[2-[(1-oxo-2-
                                     propenyl)oxy]ethyl], polymers with
                                     2-ethoxyethyl acrylate, glycidyl
                                     methacrylate and N,N,N-trimethyl-2-
                                     [(2-methyl-1-oxo-2-
                                     propenyl)oxy]ethanaminium chloride
------------------------------------------------------------------------
117806-54-9                         1-Heptanesulfonic acid,
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                     pentadecafluoro-, lithium salt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
129813-71-4                         Sulfonamides, C4-8-alkane,
                                     perfluoro, N-methyl-N-
                                     (oxiranylmethyl)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
148240-80-6                         Fatty acids, C18-unsatd., trimers, 2-
                                     [methyl[(tridecafluorohexyl)sulfony
                                     l]amino]ethyl esters
------------------------------------------------------------------------
148240-82-8                         Fatty acids, C18-unsatd., trimers, 2-
                                     [methyl[(pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulf
                                     onyl]amino]ethyl esters
------------------------------------------------------------------------
182700-90-9                         1-Octanesulfonamide,
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                     heptadecafluoro-N-methyl-, reaction
                                     products with benzene-chlorine-
                                     sulfur chloride (S2Cl2) reaction
                                     products chlorides
------------------------------------------------------------------------
L-92-0151                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, butyl
                                     ester, polymer with 2-
                                     [ethyl[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfon
                                     yl]amino]ethyl 2-methyl-2-
                                     propenoate, 2-
                                     [ethyl[(nonafluorobutyl)sulfonyl]am
                                     ino]ethyl 2-methyl-2-propenoate, 2-
                                     [ethyl[(pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfo
                                     nyl]amino]ethyl 2-methyl-2-
                                     propenoate, 2-
                                     [ethyl[(tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl
                                     ]amino]ethyl 2-methyl-2-propenoate
                                     and 2-propenoic acid
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-80-0183                           Sulfonamides, C4-8-alkane,
192662-29-6.......................   perfluoro, N-[3-
                                     (dimethylamino)propyl], reaction
                                     products with acrylic acid
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-83-1102                           Fatty acids, linseed-oil, dimers, 2-
306973-46-6.......................   [[(heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]me
                                     thylamino]ethyl esters
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-84-1163                           Propanoic acid, 3-hydroxy-2-
306975-56-4.......................   (hydroxymethyl)-2-methyl-, polymer
                                     with 2-ethyl-2-(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-
                                     propanediol and N,N',2-tris(6-
                                     isocyanatohexyl)imidodicarbonic
                                     diamide, reaction products with N-
                                     ethyl-
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                     heptadecafluoro-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-
                                     1-octanesulfonamide and N-ethyl-
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                     pentadecafluoro-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-
                                     1-heptanesulfonamide, compds. with
                                     triethylamine
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-84-1171                           Propanoic acid, 3-hydroxy-2-
306975-57-5.......................   (hydroxymethyl)-2-methyl-, polymer
                                     with 1,1'-methylenebis[4-
                                     isocyanatobenzene] and 1,2,3-
                                     propanetriol, reaction products
                                     with N-ethyl-
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                     heptadecafluoro-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-
                                     1-octanesulfonamide and N-ethyl-
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                     pentadecafluoro-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-
                                     1-heptanesulfonamide, compds. with
                                     morpholine
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-86-0301                           Sulfonamides, C4-8-alkane,
306973-47-7.......................   perfluoro, N-(hydroxyethyl)-N-
                                     methyl, reaction products with 12-
                                     hydroxystearic acid and 2,4-TDI,
                                     ammonium salts
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-86-0958                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, dodecyl
306975-62-2.......................   ester, polymers with 2-
                                     [methyl[(perfluoro-C4-8-
                                     alkyl)sulfonyl]amino]ethyl acrylate
                                     and vinylidene chloride
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-89-0799                           Sulfonamides, C4-8-alkane,
160901-25-7.......................   perfluoro, N-ethyl-N-
                                     (hydroxyethyl), reaction products
                                     with 2-ethyl-1-hexanol and
                                     polymethylenepolyphenylene
                                     isocyanate
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-90-0111                           Sulfonamides, C4-8-alkane,
306974-19-6.......................   perfluoro, N-methyl-N-[(3-octadecyl-
                                     2-oxo-5-oxazolidinyl)methyl]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-91-1419                           Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-
306975-84-8.......................   hydro-.omega.-hydroxy-, polymer
                                     with 1,6-diisocyanatohexane, N-
                                     (hydroxyethyl)-N-methyl perfluoro
                                     C4-8-alkane sulfonamides-blocked
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-93-1444                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, dodecyl
306975-85-9.......................   ester, polymers with N-
                                     (hydroxymethyl)-2-propenamide, 2-
                                     [methyl[(perfluoro-C4-8-
                                     alkyl)sulfonyl]amino]ethyl
                                     methacrylate, stearyl methacrylate
                                     and vinylidene chloride
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-94-0545                           1-Hexadecanaminium, N,N-dimethyl-N-
306976-25-0.......................   [2-[(2-methyl-1-oxo-2-
                                     propenyl)oxy]ethyl]-, bromide,
                                     polymers with Bu acrylate, Bu
                                     methacrylate and 2-
                                     [methyl[(perfluoro-C4-8-
                                     alkyl)sulfonyl]amino]ethyl acrylate
------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 473]]

 
P-94-0927                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
306976-55-6.......................   methylpropyl ester, polymer with
                                     2,4-diisocyanato-1-methylbenzene, 2-
                                     ethyl-2-(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-
                                     propanediol and 2-propenoic acid, N-
                                     ethyl-N-(hydroxyethyl)perfluoro-C4-
                                     8-alkanesulfonamides-blocked
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-94-2206                           Siloxanes and Silicones, di-Me,
306974-28-7.......................   mono[3-[(2-methyl-1-oxo-2-
                                     propenyl)oxy]propylgroup]-
                                     terminated, polymers with 2-
                                     [methyl[(perfluoro-C4-8-
                                     alkyl)sulfonyl]amino]ethyl acrylate
                                     and stearyl methacrylate
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-95-0120                           Sulfonamides, C4-8-alkane,
306980-27-8.......................   perfluoro, N,N'-[1,6-
                                     hexanediylbis[(2-oxo-3,5-
                                     oxazolidinediyl)methylene]]bis[N-
                                     methyl-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-96-1262                           Sulfonic acids, C6-8-alkane,
306974-45-8.......................   perfluoro, compds. with
                                     polyethylene-polypropylene glycol
                                     bis(2-aminopropyl) ether
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-96-1424                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
306977-10-6.......................   (dimethylamino)ethyl ester, telomer
                                     with 2-[ethyl[(perfluoro-C4-8-
                                     alkyl)sulfonyl]amino]ethyl
                                     methacrylate and 1-octanethiol, N-
                                     oxides
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-96-1433                           1-Octanesulfonamide, N-[3-
178094-69-4.......................   (dimethyloxidoamino)propyl]-
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                     heptadecafluoro-,potassium salt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-97-0790                           1-Decanaminium, N-decyl-N,N-dimethyl-
251099-16-8.......................   , salt with
                                     1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                     heptadecafluoro-1-octanesulfonic
                                     acid (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-98-0251                           2-Propenoic acid, butyl ester,
306978-04-1.......................   polymers with acrylamide, 2-
                                     [methyl[(perfluoro-C4-8-
                                     alkyl)sulfonyl]amino]ethyl acrylate
                                     and vinylidene chloride
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-98-1272                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 3-
306977-58-2.......................   (trimethoxysilyl)propyl ester,
                                     polymers with acrylic acid, 2-
                                     [methyl[(perfluoro-C4-8-
                                     alkyl)sulfonyl]amino]ethyl acrylate
                                     and propylene glycol monoacrylate,
                                     hydrolyzed, compds. with 2,2'-
                                     (methylimino)bis[ethanol]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-99-0188                           Hexane, 1,6-diisocyanato-,
306978-65-4.......................   homopolymer, N-(hydroxyethyl)-N-
                                     methyl perfluoro-C4-8-alkane
                                     sulfonamides- and stearyl alc.-
                                     blocked
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-99-0319                           Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-[2-
306979-40-8.......................   (methylamino)ethyl]-.omega.-
                                     [(1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutyl)phenoxy]-
                                     , N-[(perfluoro-C4-8-
                                     alkyl)sulfonyl] derivs.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


  Table 3--PFAS Chemicals Subject to Reporting on or After November 8,
                                  2007
------------------------------------------------------------------------
              CAS No.                CAS Sixteenth Collective Index Name
------------------------------------------------------------------------
335-24-0                             Cyclohexanesulfonic acid,
                                      1,2,2,3,3,4,5,5,6,6-decafluoro-4-
                                      (1,1,2,2,2-pentafluoroethyl)-,
                                      potassium salt (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
335-71-7                             1-Heptanesulfonyl fluoride,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
335-77-3                             1-Decanesulfonic acid,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,9,
                                      9,10,10,10-heneicosafluoro-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
335-97-7                             1-Pentanesulfonamide,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-undecafluoro-
                                      N-2-propen-1-yl-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
355-03-3                             Cyclohexanesulfonyl fluoride,
                                      1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6-undecafluoro-
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
355-46-4                             1-Hexanesulfonic acid,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluoro-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
375-81-5                             1-Pentanesulfonyl fluoride,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-undecafluoro-
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
375-92-8                             1-Heptanesulfonic acid,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
423-86-9                             1-Octanesulfonamide,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluoro-N-2-propen-1-yl-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
1869-77-8                            Glycine, N-ethyl-N-
                                      [(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,
                                      8-heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]-,
                                      ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
1893-52-3                            2-Propenoic acid, 2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]amino]
                                      ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2263-09-4                            1-Octanesulfonamide, N-butyl-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluoro-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2706-91-4                            1-Pentanesulfonic acid,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-undecafluoro-
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2965-52-8                            1-Octanesulfonamide, N,N'-
                                      [phosphinicobis(oxy-2,1-
                                      ethanediyl)]bis[N-ethyl-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluoro-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2991-50-6                            Glycine, N-ethyl-N-
                                      [(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,
                                      8-heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]-
------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 474]]

 
2991-52-8                            Glycine, N-ethyl-N-
                                      [(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,
                                      8-heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]-,
                                      ammonium salt (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3107-18-4                            Cyclohexanesulfonic acid,
                                      1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6-undecafluoro-
                                      , potassium salt (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3820-83-5                            1-Octanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluoro-N-[2-
                                      (phosphonooxy)ethyl]-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3871-50-9                            Glycine, N-ethyl-N-
                                      [(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,
                                      8-heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]-,
                                      sodium salt (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3871-99-6                            1-Hexanesulfonic acid,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluoro-, potassium salt
                                      (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
3872-25-1                            1-Pentanesulfonic acid,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-undecafluoro-
                                      , potassium salt (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
13417-01-1                           1-Octanesulfonamide, N-[3-
                                      (dimethylamino)propyl]-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluoro-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
21055-88-9                           Carbamic acid, N,N'-(4-methyl-1,3-
                                      phenylene)bis-, C,C'-bis[2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,
                                      7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]amin
                                      o]ethyl] ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
24924-36-5                           1-Octanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluoro-N-2-propen-1-yl-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
34455-03-3                           1-Hexanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluoro-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
37338-48-0                           Poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)],
                                      .alpha.-[2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,
                                      7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]amin
                                      o]ethyl]-.omega.-hydroxy-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
38850-52-1                           1-Propanaminium, 3-
                                      [(carboxymethyl)[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,
                                      5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]amino]-
                                      N,N,N-trimethyl-, inner salt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
38850-60-1                           1-Propanesulfonic acid, 3-[[3-
                                      (dimethylamino)propyl][(1,1,2,2,3,
                                      3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]amino]-
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
50598-28-2                           1-Hexanesulfonamide, N-[3-
                                      (dimethylamino)propyl]-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluoro-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
50598-29-3                           1-Octanesulfonamide,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluoro-N-(phenylmethyl)-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
51032-47-4                           Benzenesulfonic acid,
                                      [[[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,
                                      8,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]amin
                                      o]methyl]-, sodium salt (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
52032-20-9                           Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-
                                      [[[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,
                                      8,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]meth
                                      ylamino]carbonyl]-.omega.-butoxy-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
52166-82-2                           1-Propanaminium, N,N,N-trimethyl-3-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]amino]-
                                      , chloride (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
52550-45-5                           Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-
                                      [2-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8
                                      ,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]prop
                                      ylamino]ethyl]-.omega.-hydroxy-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
55910-10-6                           Glycine, N-
                                      [(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,
                                      8-heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]-N-
                                      propyl-, potassium salt (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
56372-23-7                           Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-
                                      [2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]amino]
                                      ethyl]-.omega.-hydroxy-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
56773-42-3                           Ethanaminium, N,N,N-triethyl-,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluoro-1-octanesulfonate
                                      (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
58920-31-3                           2-Propenoic acid, 4-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8
                                      ,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]meth
                                      ylamino]butyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
59071-10-2                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,
                                      7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]ami
                                      no]ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
60270-55-5                           1-Heptanesulfonic acid,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-, potassium salt
                                      (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
61577-14-8                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 4-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8
                                      ,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]meth
                                      ylamino]butyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
66008-68-2                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-
                                      [[(2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,9,9
                                      ,10,10,11,11,11-
                                      eicosafluoroundecyl)sulfonyl]methy
                                      lamino]ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
66008-69-3                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-
                                      [[(2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,9,9
                                      ,9-
                                      heptadecafluorononyl)sulfonyl]meth
                                      ylamino]ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 475]]

 
66008-70-6                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-
                                      [methyl[(2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      tridecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]amino
                                      ]ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67584-48-9                           1-Hexanesulfonamide,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluoro-N-2-propen-1-yl-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67584-49-0                           1-Heptanesulfonamide,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-N-2-propen-1-yl-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67584-50-3                           1-Heptanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-N-[3-
                                      (trichlorosilyl)propyl]-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67584-52-5                           Glycine, N-ethyl-N-
                                      [(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-
                                      undecafluoropentyl)sulfonyl]-,
                                      potassium salt (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67584-53-6                           Glycine, N-ethyl-N-
                                      [(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]-,
                                      potassium salt (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67584-54-7                           1-Heptanesulfonamide, N-[3-
                                      (dimethylamino)propyl]-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67584-56-9                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-
                                      [methyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-
                                      undecafluoropentyl)sulfonyl]amino]
                                      ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67584-57-0                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-
                                      [methyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]amino]
                                      ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67584-58-1                           1-Propanaminium, N,N,N-trimethyl-3-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]ami
                                      no]-, iodide (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67584-60-5                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
                                      [methyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-
                                      undecafluoropentyl)sulfonyl]amino]
                                      ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67584-61-6                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
                                      [methyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]amino]
                                      ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67584-62-7                           Glycine, N-ethyl-N-
                                      [(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]-,
                                      potassium salt (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67906-38-1                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 4-
                                      [methyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,7,7
                                      ,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]ami
                                      no]butyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67906-40-5                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 4-
                                      [methyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-
                                      undecafluoropentyl)sulfonyl]amino]
                                      butyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67906-41-6                           1-Heptanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-N-2-propen-1-yl-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67906-70-1                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]amino]
                                      ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67906-71-2                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]amino]
                                      ethyl ester, polymer with
                                      octadecyl 2-propenoate and 2-
                                      propenoic acid
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67906-73-4                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-
                                      undecafluoropentyl)sulfonyl]amino]
                                      ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67906-74-5                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-
                                      undecafluoropentyl)sulfonyl]amino]
                                      ethyl ester, polymer with
                                      octadecyl 2-propenoate and 2-
                                      propenoic acid
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67923-61-9                           1-Heptanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-N-[2-
                                      (phosphonooxy)ethyl]-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67939-36-0                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,
                                      7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]ami
                                      no]ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67939-37-1                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,
                                      7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]ami
                                      no]ethyl ester, polymer with
                                      octadecyl 2-propenoate and 2-
                                      propenoic acid
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67939-42-8                           1-Octanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluoro-N-[3-
                                      (trichlorosilyl)propyl]-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67939-61-1                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 4-
                                      [methyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]amino]
                                      butyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67939-87-1                           1-Pentanesulfonamide, N,N'-
                                      [phosphinicobis(oxy-2,1-
                                      ethanediyl)]bis[N-ethyl-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-undecafluoro-
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67939-88-2                           1-Octanesulfonamide, N-[3-
                                      (dimethylamino)propyl]-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluoro-, hydrochloride
                                      (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67939-90-6                           1-Pentanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-undecafluoro-
                                      N-[2-(phosphonooxy)ethyl]-
------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 476]]

 
67939-92-8                           1-Hexanesulfonamide, N,N'-
                                      [phosphinicobis(oxy-2,1-
                                      ethanediyl)]bis[N-ethyl-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluoro-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67939-93-9                           1-Heptanesulfonamide, N,N'-
                                      [phosphinicobis(oxy-2,1-
                                      ethanediyl)]bis[N-ethyl-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67939-94-0                           1-Heptanesulfonamide, N,N',N'-
                                      [phosphinylidynetris(oxy-2,1-
                                      ethanediyl)]tris[N-ethyl-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67939-96-2                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
                                      [methyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7
                                      ,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]ami
                                      no]ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67939-97-3                           1-Heptanesulfonamide, N,N'-
                                      [phosphinicobis(oxy-2,1-
                                      ethanediyl)]bis[N-ethyl-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-, ammonium salt
                                      (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67939-98-4                           1-Heptanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-N-[2-
                                      (phosphonooxy)ethyl]-, ammonium
                                      salt (1:2)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67940-02-7                           1-Heptanesulfonamide, N-[3-
                                      (dimethylamino)propyl]-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-, hydrochloride
                                      (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
67969-65-7                           1-Hexanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluoro-N-[2-
                                      (phosphonooxy)ethyl]-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68081-83-4                           Carbamic acid, N,N'-(4-methyl-1,3-
                                      phenylene)bis-, bis[2-
                                      [ethyl[(perfluoro-C4-8-
                                      alkyl)sulfonyl]amino]ethyl] ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68084-62-8                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-
                                      [methyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7
                                      ,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]ami
                                      no]ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68156-00-3                           Cyclohexanesulfonyl fluoride,
                                      nonafluorobis(trifluoromethyl)-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68156-06-9                           Cyclohexanesulfonyl fluoride,
                                      decafluoro(1,1,2,2,2-
                                      pentafluoroethyl)-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68156-07-0                           Cyclohexanesulfonic acid,
                                      decafluoro(trifluoromethyl)-,
                                      potassium salt (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68227-87-2                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,
                                      7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]amin
                                      o]ethyl ester, telomer with 2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,4-
                                      nonafluorobutyl)sulfonyl]amino]eth
                                      yl 2-methyl-2-propenoate, 2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,
                                      7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]ami
                                      no]ethyl 2-methyl-2-propenoate, 2-
                                      [ethyl
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68227-94-1                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8
                                      ,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]meth
                                      ylamino]ethyl ester, polymer with
                                      2-[methyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,4-
                                      nonafluorobutyl)sulfonyl]amino]eth
                                      yl 2-propenoate, .alpha.-(2-methyl-
                                      1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)-.omega.-
                                      hydroxypoly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl),
                                      .alpha.-(2-methyl-1-oxo-2-propen-1-
                                      yl)-.omega.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68227-96-3                           2-Propenoic acid, butyl ester,
                                      telomer with 2-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8
                                      ,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]meth
                                      ylamino]ethyl 2-propenoate, 2-
                                      [methyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,4-
                                      nonafluorobutyl)sulfonyl]amino]eth
                                      yl 2-propenoate, .alpha.-(2-methyl-
                                      1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)-.omega.-
                                      hydroxypoly(oxy-1,4-butanediyl),
                                      .alpha.-(2-methyl
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68227-97-4                           2-Propenoic acid, 4-
                                      [methyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7
                                      ,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]ami
                                      no]butyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68227-98-5                           2-Propenoic acid, 4-
                                      [methyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]amino]
                                      butyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68227-99-6                           2-Propenoic acid, 4-
                                      [methyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-
                                      undecafluoropentyl)sulfonyl]amino]
                                      butyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68228-00-2                           2-Propenoic acid, ethyl ester,
                                      polymer with 4-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8
                                      ,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]meth
                                      ylamino]butyl 2-propenoate, 4-
                                      [methyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,4-
                                      nonafluorobutyl)sulfonyl]amino]but
                                      yl 2-propenoate, .alpha.-(2-methyl-
                                      1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)-.omega.-
                                      hydroxypoly(oxy-1,4-butanediyl),
                                      .alpha.-(2-methyl
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68239-72-5                           1-Pentanesulfonamide,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-undecafluoro-
                                      N-(4-hydroxybutyl)-N-methyl-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68239-73-6                           1-Octanesulfonamide,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluoro-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)-
                                      N-methyl-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68239-74-7                           1-Hexanesulfonamide,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluoro-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)-N-
                                      methyl-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68239-75-8                           1-Heptanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-N-[3-
                                      (trimethoxysilyl)propyl]-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68259-06-3                           1-Nonanesulfonyl fluoride,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,9,
                                      9,9-nonadecafluoro-
------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 477]]

 
68259-07-4                           1-Heptanesulfonic acid,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-, ammonium salt
                                      (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68259-08-5                           1-Hexanesulfonic acid,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluoro-, ammonium salt
                                      (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68259-09-6                           1-Pentanesulfonic acid,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-undecafluoro-
                                      , ammonium salt (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68259-12-1                           1-Nonanesulfonic acid,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,9,
                                      9,9-nonadecafluoro-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68259-14-3                           1-Heptanesulfonamide,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-N-methyl-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68259-15-4                           1-Hexanesulfonamide,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluoro-N-methyl-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68259-38-1                           Poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)],
                                      .alpha.-[2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]amino]
                                      ethyl]-.omega.-hydroxy-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68259-39-2                           Poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)],
                                      .alpha.-[2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,
                                      7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]ami
                                      no]ethyl]-.omega.-hydroxy-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68298-06-6                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-
                                      undecafluoropentyl)sulfonyl]amino]
                                      ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68298-08-8                           1-Pentanesulfonamide,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-undecafluoro-
                                      N-(phenylmethyl)-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68298-09-9                           1-Hexanesulfonamide,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluoro-N-(phenylmethyl)-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68298-10-2                           1-Heptanesulfonamide,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-N-(phenylmethyl)-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68298-11-3                           1-Propanaminium, 3-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8
                                      ,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl](3-
                                      sulfopropyl)amino]-N-(2-
                                      hydroxyethyl)-N,N-dimethyl-, inner
                                      salt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68298-13-5                           1-Pentanesulfonamide,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-undecafluoro-
                                      N-methyl-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68298-60-2                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-
                                      [butyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,
                                      7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]ami
                                      no]ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68298-78-2                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
                                      [[[[5-[[[2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,
                                      7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]amin
                                      o]ethoxy]carbonyl]amino]-2-
                                      methylphenyl]amino]carbonyl]oxy]pr
                                      opyl ester, telomer with butyl 2-
                                      propenoate, 2-[[[[5-[[[2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,4-
                                      nonafluorobutyl)sulfonyl]amino]eth
                                      oxy]carbon
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68298-80-6                           Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-
                                      [2-[ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-
                                      undecafluoropentyl)sulfonyl]amino]
                                      ethyl]-.omega.-hydroxy-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68298-81-7                           Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-
                                      [2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,
                                      7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]ami
                                      no]ethyl]-.omega.-hydroxy-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68298-89-5                           1-Heptanesulfonamide,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)-
                                      N-methyl-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68299-20-7                           Benzenesulfonic acid,
                                      [[[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-
                                      undecafluoropentyl)sulfonyl]amino]
                                      methyl]-, sodium salt (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68299-21-8                           Benzenesulfonic acid,
                                      [[[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]amino]
                                      methyl]-, sodium salt (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68299-29-6                           Benzenesulfonic acid, ar-
                                      [[[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]ami
                                      no]methyl]-, sodium salt (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68299-39-8                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 4-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8
                                      ,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]meth
                                      ylamino]butyl ester, telomer with
                                      butyl 2-propenoate, 2-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8
                                      ,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]meth
                                      ylamino]ethyl 2-propenoate, 4-
                                      [methyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,4-
                                      nonafluorobutyl)sulfonyl]amino]but
                                      yl 2-methyl-2-propeno
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68310-02-1                           1-Heptanesulfonamide, N-butyl-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68310-17-8                           Poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)],
                                      .alpha.-[2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-
                                      undecafluoropentyl)sulfonyl]amino]
                                      ethyl]-.omega.-hydroxy-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68310-75-8                           1-Propanaminium, 3-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8
                                      ,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]amin
                                      o]-N,N,N-trimethyl-, iodide,
                                      ammonium salt (1:1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68318-34-3                           Cyclohexanesulfonyl fluoride,
                                      decafluoro(trifluoromethyl)-
------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 478]]

 
68318-36-5                           1-Propanaminium, 3-
                                      [(carboxymethyl)[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,
                                      5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]amin
                                      o]-N,N,N-trimethyl-, inner salt
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68391-09-3                           Sulfonic acids, C6-12-alkane,
                                      perfluoro, potassium salts
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68541-01-5                           Benzoic acid, 2,3,4,5-tetrachloro-6-
                                      [[[3-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]oxy
                                      ]phenyl]amino]carbonyl]-,
                                      potassium salt (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68541-02-6                           Benzoic acid, 2,3,4,5-tetrachloro-6-
                                      [[[3-[[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-
                                      undecafluoropentyl)sulfonyl]oxy]ph
                                      enyl]amino]carbonyl]-, potassium
                                      salt (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68555-69-1                           Glycine, N-ethyl-N-
                                      [(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-
                                      undecafluoropentyl)sulfonyl]-,
                                      sodium salt (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68555-70-4                           Glycine, N-ethyl-N-
                                      [(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]-,
                                      sodium salt (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68555-71-5                           Glycine, N-ethyl-N-
                                      [(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]-,
                                      sodium salt (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68555-72-6                           1-Pentanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-undecafluoro-
                                      N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68555-73-7                           1-Heptanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68555-74-8                           1-Pentanesulfonamide,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-undecafluoro-
                                      N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-N-methyl-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68555-75-9                           1-Hexanesulfonamide,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluoro-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-N-
                                      methyl-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68555-76-0                           1-Heptanesulfonamide,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-
                                      N-methyl-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68555-78-2                           1-Pentanesulfonamide, N-[3-
                                      (dimethylamino)propyl]-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-undecafluoro-
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68555-79-3                           Glycine, N-ethyl-N-
                                      [(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-
                                      undecafluoropentyl)sulfonyl]-,
                                      ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68555-81-7                           1-Propanaminium, N,N,N-trimethyl-3-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]ami
                                      no]-, chloride (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68568-77-4                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,
                                      7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]amin
                                      o]ethyl ester, polymer with 2-
                                      chloro-1,3-butadiene, 2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,4-
                                      nonafluorobutyl)sulfonyl]amino]eth
                                      yl 2-methyl-2-propenoate, 2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,
                                      7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]ami
                                      no]ethyl 2-methyl
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68608-13-9                           Sulfonamides, C4-8-alkane,
                                      perfluoro, N-ethyl-N-
                                      (hydroxyethyl), reaction products
                                      with TDI
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68797-76-2                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
                                      ethylhexyl ester, polymer with 2-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8
                                      ,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]meth
                                      ylamino]ethyl 2-propenoate, 2-
                                      [methyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,4-
                                      nonafluorobutyl)sulfonyl]amino]eth
                                      yl 2-propenoate, 2-
                                      [methyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7
                                      ,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]ami
                                      no]ethyl 2-propenoa
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68815-72-5                           Benzoic acid, 2,3,4,5-tetrachloro-6-
                                      [[[3-[[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]oxy]ph
                                      enyl]amino]carbonyl]-, potassium
                                      salt (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68877-32-7                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,
                                      7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]amin
                                      o]ethyl ester, polymer with 2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,4-
                                      nonafluorobutyl)sulfonyl]amino]eth
                                      yl 2-methyl-2-propenoate, 2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,
                                      7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]ami
                                      no]ethyl 2-methyl-2-propenoate, 2-
                                      [ethyl
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68891-97-4                           Chromium, diaquatetrachloro[.mu.-[N-
                                      ethyl-N-
                                      [(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]gly
                                      cinato-.kappa.O:.kappa.O']]-.mu.-
                                      hydroxybis(2-propanol)-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68891-98-5                           Chromium, diaquatetrachloro[.mu.-[N-
                                      ethyl-N-
                                      [(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]glycin
                                      ato-.kappa.O:.kappa.O']]-.mu.-
                                      hydroxybis(2-propanol)di-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68891-99-6                           Chromium, diaquatetrachloro[.mu.-[N-
                                      ethyl-N-[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-
                                      undecafluoropentyl)sulfonyl]glycin
                                      ato-.kappa.O:.kappa.O']]-.mu.-
                                      hydroxybis(2-propanol)di-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68957-31-3                           Glycine, N-ethyl-N-
                                      [(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-
                                      undecafluoropentyl)sulfonyl]-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68957-32-4                           Glycine, N-ethyl-N-
                                      [(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68957-53-9                           Glycine, N-ethyl-N-
                                      [(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]-,
                                      ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68957-54-0                           Glycine, N-ethyl-N-
                                      [(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]-,
                                      ethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 479]]

 
68957-55-1                           1-Propanaminium, N,N,N-trimethyl-3-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-
                                      undecafluoropentyl)sulfonyl]amino]-
                                      , chloride (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68957-57-3                           1-Propanaminium, N,N,N-trimethyl-3-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-
                                      undecafluoropentyl)sulfonyl]amino]-
                                      , iodide (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68957-58-4                           1-Propanaminium, N,N,N-trimethyl-3-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]amino]-
                                      , iodide (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68957-60-8                           1-Pentanesulfonamide, N-[3-
                                      (dimethylamino)propyl]-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-undecafluoro-
                                      , hydrochloride (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68957-61-9                           1-Hexanesulfonamide, N-[3-
                                      (dimethylamino)propyl]-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluoro-, hydrochloride
                                      (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68957-62-0                           1-Heptanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68957-63-1                           Glycine, N-ethyl-N-
                                      [(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
68958-60-1                           Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-
                                      [2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,
                                      7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]ami
                                      no]ethyl]-.omega.-methoxy-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
70225-15-9                           1-Heptanesulfonic acid,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoro-, compd. with 2,2'-
                                      iminobis[ethanol] (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
70225-16-0                           1-Hexanesulfonic acid,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluoro-, compd. with 2,2'-
                                      iminobis[ethanol] (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
70225-17-1                           1-Pentanesulfonic acid,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-undecafluoro-
                                      , compd. with 2,2'-
                                      iminobis[ethanol] (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
70225-20-6                           1-Propanaminium, N,N,N-trimethyl-3-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]ami
                                      no]-, sulfate (2:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
70225-24-0                           1-Propanaminium, N,N,N-trimethyl-3-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-
                                      undecafluoropentyl)sulfonyl]amino]-
                                      , sulfate (2:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
70225-26-2                           1-Propanaminium, 3-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8
                                      ,8,-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]amin
                                      o]-N,N,N-trimethyl-, sulfate (2:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
70248-52-1                           1-Propanaminium, N,N,N-trimethyl-3-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]amino]-
                                      , sulfate (2:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
70900-40-2                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
                                      [[[[5-[[[4-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8
                                      ,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]meth
                                      ylamino]butoxy]carbonyl]amino]-2-
                                      methylphenyl]amino]carbonyl]oxy]pr
                                      opyl ester, telomer with butyl 2-
                                      propenoate, 2-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8
                                      ,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]meth
                                      ylamino]ethyl 2-propenoate,
------------------------------------------------------------------------
71463-74-6                           1-Octanesulfonic acid,
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluoro-, compd. with
                                      piperidine (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
71463-78-0                           Phosphonic acid, P-[3-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,
                                      7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]amin
                                      o]propyl]-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
71463-79-1                           Phosphonic acid, P-[3-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,
                                      7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]ami
                                      no]propyl]-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
71463-80-4                           Phosphonic acid, P-[3-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,
                                      7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]amin
                                      o]propyl]-, diethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
71463-81-5                           Phosphonic acid, P-[3-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,
                                      7,7-
                                      pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]ami
                                      no]propyl]-, diethyl ester
------------------------------------------------------------------------
72785-08-1                           1-Propanesulfonic acid, 3-[[3-
                                      (dimethylamino)propyl][(1,1,2,2,3,
                                      3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]amin
                                      o]-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
73018-93-6                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-
                                      ethylhexyl ester, polymer with 2-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8
                                      ,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]meth
                                      ylamino]ethyl 2-propenoate
------------------------------------------------------------------------
73019-19-9                           Benzamide, 4-[[4-[[[2-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8
                                      ,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]prop
                                      ylamino]ethyl]amino]carbonyl]pheny
                                      l]methyl]-N-octadecyl-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
73019-20-2                           1,3-Benzenedicarboxamide, N\3\-[2-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8
                                      ,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]meth
                                      ylamino]ethyl]-N\1\-[2-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8
                                      ,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]prop
                                      ylamino]ethyl]-4-methyl-
------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 480]]

 
73019-28-0                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8
                                      ,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]prop
                                      ylamino]ethyl ester, polymer with
                                      .alpha.-(2-methyl-1-oxo-2-propen-1-
                                      yl)-.omega.-methoxypoly(oxy-1,2-
                                      ethanediyl)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
73038-33-2                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8
                                      ,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]prop
                                      ylamino]ethyl ester, polymer with
                                      2-methyloxirane polymer with
                                      oxirane mono(2-methyl-2-
                                      propenoate)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
73275-59-9                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-
                                      [[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,8,8
                                      ,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]prop
                                      ylamino]ethyl ester, polymer with
                                      .alpha.-(2-methyl-1-oxo-2-propen-1-
                                      yl)-.omega.-butoxypoly[oxy(methyl-
                                      1,2-ethanediyl)]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
73772-33-5                           1-Hexanesulfonamide, N-[3-
                                      (dimethylamino)propyl]-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluoro-, acetate (1:1)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
73772-34-6                           1-Hexanesulfonamide, N-[3-
                                      (dimethylamino)propyl]-
                                      1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-
                                      tridecafluoro-N-[2-[2-(2-
                                      hydroxyethoxy)ethoxy]ethyl]-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
95590-48-0                           2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 3-
                                      (trimethoxysilyl)propyl ester,
                                      polymer with ethenylbenzene, 2-
                                      [ethyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,
                                      7,8,8,8-
                                      heptadecafluorooctyl)sulfonyl]amin
                                      o]ethyl 2-propenoate and 2-
                                      hydroxyethyl 2-propenoate
------------------------------------------------------------------------
148240-81-7                          Fatty acids, C18-unsatd., trimers,
                                      2-[methyl[(1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-
                                      undecafluoropentyl)sulfonyl]amino]
                                      ethyl esters
------------------------------------------------------------------------
179005-06-2                          Sulfonamides, C4-8-alkane,
                                      perfluoro, N-[3-
                                      (dimethyloxidoamino)propyl],
                                      potassium salts
------------------------------------------------------------------------


       Table 4--Fourth Set of PFAS Chemicals Subject to Reporting
------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Premanufacture Notice Case No.            Generic chemical name
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-83-0126.............................  Modified fluoroaliphatic adduct
P-90-0110.............................  Fluorochemical epoxide
P-94-1508.............................  Fluorinated polysiloxane
P-94-1509B............................  Fluorinated polysiloxane
P-98-0809.............................  Fluorochemical esters
P-99-0296.............................  Fluoroalkyl derivative
P-01-0035.............................  Perfluorooctane sulfonate
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Manufacturing (including importing) or processing of any 
chemical substance listed in Table 1 of paragraph (a)(1) of this section 
for any use.
    (ii) Manufacturing (including importing) or processing of any 
chemical substance listed in Table 2 of paragraph (a)(1) of this section 
for any use, except as noted in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
    (iii) Manufacturing (including importing) or processing of any 
chemical substance listed in Table 3 of paragraph (a)(1) of this section 
for any use, except as noted in paragraphs (a)(3) through (5) of this 
section.
    (iv) Manufacturing (including importing) or processing of any 
chemical substance listed in Table 4 of paragraph (a)(1) of this section 
for any use.
    (3) Manufacturing (including importing) or processing of any 
chemical substance listed in Table 2 and Table 3 of paragraph (a)(1) of 
this section for the following specific uses shall not be considered as 
a significant new use subject to reporting under this section:
    (i) Use as an anti-erosion additive in fire-resistant phosphate 
ester aviation hydraulic fluids.
    (ii) Use as a component of a photoresist substance, including a 
photo acid generator or surfactant, or as a component of an anti-
reflective coating, used in a photomicrolithography process to produce 
semiconductors or similar components of electronic or other miniaturized 
devices.
    (iii) Use in coating for surface tension, static discharge, and 
adhesion control for analog and digital imaging films, papers, and 
printing plates, or as a surfactant in mixtures used to process imaging 
films.
    (iv) Use as an intermediate only to produce other chemical 
substances to be used solely for the uses listed in paragraph (a)(3)(i), 
(ii), or (iii) of this section.
    (4) Manufacturing (including importing) or processing of 
tetraethylammonium perfluorooctanesulfonate (CAS No. 56773-42-3) for use 
as a fume/mist suppressant in metal finishing and plating baths shall 
not be considered as a significant new use subject to reporting under 
this section. Examples of such

[[Page 481]]

metal finishing and plating baths include: Hard chrome plating; 
decorative chromium plating; chromic acid anodizing; nickel, cadmium, or 
lead plating; metal plating on plastics; and alkaline zinc plating.
    (5) Manufacturing (including importing) or processing of: 1-
Pentanesulfonic acid, 1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,5-undecafluoro-, potassium 
salt (CAS No. 3872-25-1); Glycine, N-ethyl-N-
[(tridecafluorohexyl)sulfonyl]-, potassium salt (CAS No. 67584-53-6); 
Glycine, N-ethyl-N-[(pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl]-, potassium salt 
(CAS No. 67584-62-7); 1-Heptanesulfonic acid, 
1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-pentadecafluoro-, ammonium salt (CAS No. 
68259-07-4); 1-Heptanesulfonamide, N-ethyl-
1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,7,7,7-pentadecafluoro- (CAS No. 68957-62-0); 
Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-[2- 
[ethyl[(pentadecafluoroheptyl)sulfonyl] amino]ethyl]-.omega.-methoxy- 
(CAS No. 68958-60-1); or 1-Hexanesulfonic acid, 
1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-tridecafluoro-, compd. with 2,2'-
iminobis[ethanol] (1:1) (CAS No. 70225-16-0) for use as a component of 
an etchant, including a surfactant or fume suppressant, used in the 
plating process to produce electronic devices shall not be considered a 
significant new use subject to reporting under this section.
    (b) [Reserved]

[67 FR 72863, Dec. 9, 2002, as amended at 72 FR 57229, Oct. 9, 2007; 78 
FR 62450, Oct. 22, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9595  Benzenesulfonic acid, mono C-<INF>10-16</INF>-alkyl
derivs., compounds with 2-propen-1-amine and Alkyl benzene sulfonic
acids and alkyl sulfates, amine salts.
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as benzenesulfonic 
acid, mono C-<INF>10-16</INF>-alkyl derivs., compds. with 2-propen-1-
amine (PMN P-97-296 and SNUN S-03-10; CAS No. 195008-77-6) and the 
chemical substances identified generically as alkyl benzene sulfonic 
acids and alkyl sulfates, amine salts (PMNs P-97-297/298/299 and SNUNs 
S-03-11/12/13) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) N = 30.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44582, Aug. 20, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 37166, June 30, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9597  Salt of a substituted sulfonated aryl azo compound
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as salt of 
a substituted sulfonated aryl azo compound (PMN P-00-0094) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15089, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9620  Aromatic sulfonic acid compound with amine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as aromatic 
sulfonic acid compound with amine (PMN P-93-832) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.

[[Page 482]]

    (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Release to water. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.90 (a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 30 
ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51709, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9630  Polyfluorosulfonic acid salt.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyfluorosulfonic acid salt (P-90-587) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(y) (1) and (2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. The following recordkeeping 
requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors 
of this substance, as specified in Sec. 721.100 (a), (b), (c), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[56 FR 15793, Apr. 17, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9635  Terpenes and terpenoids, limonene fraction, distn.
residues, distillates.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as terpenes and 
terpenoids, limonene fraction, distn. residues, distillates (PMN P-96-
0897; CAS No. 166432-37-7) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3438, Jan. 22, 1998, as amended at 79 FR 34638, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9640  Salt of an acrylic acid -acrylamide terpolymer
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as salt of 
an acrylic acid -acrylamide terpolymer (PMN P-99-817) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(v)(2), (w)(2), and (x)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70183, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9650  Tetramethylammonium salts of alkylbenzenesulfonic
acid.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
tetramethylammonium salts of alkylbenzenesulfonic acid (PMN P-

[[Page 483]]

92-1364) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 80 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51687, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9656  Thiaalkanethiol.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
thiaalkanethiol (PMN P-94-1487) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 45084, Aug. 30, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9657  Disubstituted thiadiazole.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
disubstituted thiadiazole (PMN P-97-314) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (a),(b), (c), and (j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3438, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9658  Thiadiazole derivative.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as a thiadiazole 
derivative (PMN P-94-1631) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (a), (c), (f), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where n = 90).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[60 FR 45085, Aug. 30, 1995]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9659  Disubstituted thiadiazosulfone.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
disubstituted

[[Page 484]]

thiadiazosulfone (PMN P-97-304) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (a),(b), (c), and (j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3438, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9660  Methylthiouracil.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance methylthiouracil (CAS No. 56-04-2) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new use described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Manufacture, import, or processing 
of 10,000 pounds or more per year per facility for any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), and (c).
    (2) [Reserved]

[58 FR 63517, Dec. 1, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9661  Diphenol tars (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as diphenol 
tars (PMN P-97-813) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44582, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9662  Thieno[3,4-b]-1,4-dioxin, 2,3-dihydro- (9CI).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as thieno[3,4-b]-1,4-
dioxin, 2,3-dihydro- (9CI) (PMN P-95-1825; CAS No. 126213-50-1) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1) and (a)(2)(i).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3439, Jan. 22, 1998; 63 FR 9441, Feb. 25, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9663  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), alpha, alpha'-[thiobis
(1-oxo-3,1-propanediyl)]bis [omega-hydroxy-,bis (C [bdi1][bdi1]-
[bdi1][bdi5] and C  [bdi1][bdi1]-[bdi1][bdi5]-isoalkyl) ethers.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as

[[Page 485]]

poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), alpha, alpha'-[thiobis (1-oxo-3,1-
propanediyl)]bis [omega-hydroxy-,bis(C<INF>11-15</INF> and 
C<INF>11-15-isoalkyl</INF>) ethers (PMN P-97-497; CAS No. 174254-18-3) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44582, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9664  9H-Thioxanthen-9-one,2,4-diethyl.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 9H-thioxanthen-9-
one,2,4-diethyl (PMN P-96-1315; CAS No. 82799-44-8) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3439, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9665  Organotin catalysts.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
organotin catalysts (PMNs P-93-853, P-93-854, P-93-855, P-93-856, P-93-
857, and P-93-858) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Industrial, commercial and 
consumer activities. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), 
(v)(2), (w)(1), (w)(2), (x)(1), and (x)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51709, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9668  Organotin lithium compound.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance generically identified as an 
organotin lithium compound (PMN P-93-1119) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 9450, Feb. 25, 1998]

[[Page 486]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9670  Tetraaryltin (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
Tetraaryltin (PMN P-99-0198) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81404, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9671  Triaryltin (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
Triaryltin (PMN P-99-0199) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 81404, Dec. 26, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9672  Amides, tall-oil fatty, N-[2-[2-hydroxyethyl)amino]ethyl],
reaction products with sulfur dioxide; fatty acids, tall-oil, reaction 
products with 1-piperazineethanamine and sulfur dioxide; fatty acids,
tall-oil reaction products with sulfur dioxide and triethylenetetramine
  
          .

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as amides, tall-oil 
fatty, N-[2-[2-hydroxyethyl)amino]ethyl], reaction products with sulfur 
dioxide; fatty acids, tall-oil, reaction products with 1-
piperazineethanamine and sulfur dioxide; fatty acids, tall-oil reaction 
products with sulfur dioxide and triethylenetetramine (PMN P-98-725; CAS 
Nos. 202483-48-5, 203809-20-5, and 204401-83-2) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 373, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9674  Sulfonated-copper phthalocyanine salt of a
triarylmethane dye (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
sulfonated-copper phthalocyanine salt of a triarylmethane dye (PMN P-00-
1055) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).

[[Page 487]]

    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70183, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9675  Titanate [Ti [bdi6]O [bdi1][bdi3] (2-)], di po tas sium.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as titanate 
[Ti<INF>6</INF>O<INF>13</INF> (2-)], dipotassium (PMN P-90-226; SNUNs P-
96-1408, S-08-6, S-09-4, and S-13-49; CAS No. 12056-51-8)) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f) and (l). In addition, a significant new 
use of the substance is importation of the chemical substance if:
    (A) Manufactured by other than the method described in 
premanufacture notice P-90-226 and significant new use notices P-96-
1408, S-08-6, S-09-4, and S-13-49.
    (B) Manufactured producing respirable, acicular fibers with an 
average aspect ratio of greater than 5. The average aspect ratio is 
defined as the ratio of average length to average diameter.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance as 
specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c) and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[56 FR 40215, Aug. 13, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 80 FR 70175, Nov. 13, 
2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9680  Alkaline titania silica gel (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an 
alkaline titania silica gel (PMN P-95-529) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[61 FR 63740, Dec. 2, 1996]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9685  Mixed trialkylamines (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as mixed 
trialkylamines (PMNs P-97-943/944/945/946/947/948) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),

[[Page 488]]

(b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44583, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9700  Monosubstituted alkoxy amino tra zines (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance monosubstituted 
alkoxyaminotrazines (PMN P-86-1043) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of 
this section.
    (i) The significant new uses are:
    (A) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1) and (a)(3), (b) [concentration set at 0.1 percent], and 
(c).
    (B) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (b)(2), (d), (e) [concentration set at 0.1 percent], (f), and 
(g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), and (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(v), 
(g)(4)(xi), and (g)(5). The provisions of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring 
employees to be provided with information on the location and 
availability of a written hazard communication program and MSDSs do not 
apply when the written program and MSDS are not required under Sec. 
721.72 (a) and (c), respectively. The provision of Sec. 721.72(g) 
requiring placement of specific information on a MSDS does not apply 
when a MSDS is not required under Sec. 721.72(c).
    (C) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (D) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1) and 
(a)(2) and (b)(1) and (b)(2).
    (E) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4) [concern level of 10 ppb], (b)(4) [concern level of 10 ppb], and 
(c)(4) [concern level of 10 ppb].
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (2) The chemical substance monosubstituted alkoxyaminotrazines (PMN 
P-86-1044) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.
    (i) The significant new uses are:
    (A) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii) through (a)(5)(vii), and 
(a)(6)(i), (b) [concentration set at 0.1 percent], and (c).
    (B) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (b)(2), (d), (e) [concentration set at 0.1 percent], (f), and 
(g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), and (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(iv), and (g)(2)(v), (g)(4)(xi), and (5). The provisions of Sec. 
721.72(d) requiring employees to be provided with information on the 
location and availability of a written hazard communication program and 
MSDSs do not apply when the written program and MSDS are not required 
under Sec. 721.72 (a) and (c), respectively. The provision of Sec. 
721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information on a MSDS does not 
apply when a MSDS in not required under Sec. 721.72(c).
    (C) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (D) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1) and 
(a)(2) and (b)(1) and (b)(2).
    (E) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4) [concern level of 1 ppb], (b)(4) [concern level of 1 ppb], and 
(c)(4) [concern level of 1 ppb].
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 26108, June 26, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9717  Azo monochloro triazine reactive dye.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 489]]

chemical substance identified generically as an azo monochloro triazine 
reactive dye (PMN P-96-238) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(2), (w)(2), and (x)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3439, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9719  Tris carbamoyl triazine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as tris 
carbamoyl triazine (PMN P-95-1098) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities 
of the chemical substance after it has been completely reacted (cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and 
(c). Respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational 
Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 
5. As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed, a 
manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow the new 
chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the Toxic Substances 
Control Act (TSCA) section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The 
NCEL is 1.0 mg/m\3\ as an 8-hour time weighted average. Persons who wish 
to pursue NCELs as an alternative to the Sec. 721.63 respirator 
requirements may request to do so under Sec. 721.30. Persons whose 
Sec. 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will 
receive NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the 
corresponding section 5(e) consent order. The following NIOSH-certified 
respirators meet the requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) Air purifying, tight-fitting half-face respirator equipped with 
the appropriate combination cartridges; cartridges should be tested and 
approved for the gas/vapor substance (i.e., organic vapor, acid gas, or 
substance-specific cartridge) and should include a particulate filter 
(N100 if oil aerosols are absent, R100, or P100);
    (B) Air purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with 
the appropriate combination cartridges; cartridges should be tested and 
approved for the gas/vapor substance (i.e., organic vapor, acid gas, or 
substance-specific cartridge) and should include a particulate filter 
(N100 if oil aerosols are absent, R100, or P100);
    (C) Powered air-purifying respirator equipped with loose-fitting 
hood or helmet equipped with a High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) 
filter; powered air-purifying respirator equipped with tight-fitting 
facepiece (either half-face or full-face) equipped with a HEPA filter;
    (D) Supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or 
continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or tight-
fitting face piece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), and (h) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44583, Aug. 20, 1998, as amended at 63 FR 62956, Nov. 10, 1998; 
77 FR 6479, Feb. 8, 2012; 77 FR 24409, Apr. 24, 2012]

[[Page 490]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9720  Certain disubstituted alkyl triazines.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
disubstituted alkyl triazines (PMN P-85-0932) and as 1,3,5-triazin-2-
amine, 4-methoxy-N,6-dimethyl- (PMN P-85-0933; CAS No. 5248-39-5) are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration 
set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b)(1), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), and 
(g)(2)(v). The provision of Sec. 721.72(d) requiring that employees be 
provided with information on the location and availability of MSDSs does 
not apply when an MSDS is not required under Sec. 721.72(c). The 
provision of Sec. 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information 
on an MSDS does not apply when an MSDS is not required under Sec. 
721.72(c).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (iv) Release to water. Sec. 721.90 (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (i) and (k).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[55 FR 26101, June 26, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 79 FR 34638, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9730  Certain 1,3,5-triazine-2-amine, 4-dimethylamino-
6-substituted.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 1,3,5-
triazine-2-amine, 4-dimethylamino-6-substituted (PMN P-92-0343) and as 
1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine, N2,N2-dimethyl-6-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)- 
(PMN P-92-0344; CAS No. 145963-84-4) are subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4), 
(a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), 
(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), 
(g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 as thus 
amended: It is a significant new use to dispose of the process or use 
stream associated with any use of the substance or with any manner or 
method of manufacturing associated with any use of the substance by 
landfill.
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4) (where N = 1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[58 FR 32241, June 8, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 79 
FR 34638, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9740  Brominated triazine derivative.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 491]]

chemical substance identified generically as a brominated triazine 
derivative (PMN P-91-403) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5). The 
hazard communication requirements do not apply when the chemical 
substance is present in a plastic, elastomer, rubber matrix, or in 
solution.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in section 721.80(q). Any amount of the PMN substance 
imported in a plastic, elastomer, rubber matrix, or in a solution, such 
that inhalation is precluded, shall not be included in the production 
limit calculations.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (d) and (f) through (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44075, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9750  2-Chloro-4,6-bis(substituted)-1,3,5-triazine, 
dihydrochloride.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 2-
chloro-4,6-bis(substituted)-1,3,5-triazine, dihydrochloride (PMN P-91-
659) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and 
(g)(5). The following additional statements shall appear on each label 
and MSDS required by this paragraph: This substance may be toxic to 
terrestrial organisms and plants. Notice to users: Release to water 
restrictions apply.
    (ii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85. A 
significant new use of this substance is any release of this substance 
to land.
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 10 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (j), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[59 FR 27485, May 27, 1994]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9790  Benzenesulfonic acid, 2,2'-(1,2-ethenediyl)bis[5-[[4-
[bis(2-hydroxypropyl) amino]- 6-[(3-sulfophenyl)amino]-1,3,5-triazin-
2-yl]amino]-, disodium salt, compd. with 2,2',2''-nitrilo-tris[ethanol]
(1:2);Benzenesulfonic acid, 5-[[4-[bis(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]-6-[(3-
 sulfophenyl)amino]-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl]amino]-2-[2-[4-[[4-
 [bis(2-hydroxypropyl)amino]-6-[(3-sulfophenyl)amino]-1,3,5-
 triazin-2-yl]amino]-2-sulfophenyl]ethenyl]-, disodium salt, 
 compd. with 2,2',2''-nitrilotris[ethanol] (1:2).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as a Benzenesulfonic 
acid, 2,2'-(1,2-ethenediyl)bis[5-[[4-[bis(2hydroxypropyl)amino]-6-[(3-
sulfophenyl)amino]-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl]amino]-, disodium salt, compd. 
with 2,2',2''-nitrilotris[ethanol] (1:2); Benzenesulfonic acid, 5-[[4-
[bis(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]-6-[(3-sulfophenyl)amino]-1,3,5-triazin-2-
yl]amino]-2-[2-[4-[[4-[bis(2-

[[Page 492]]

hydroxypropyl)amino]-6-[(3-sulfophenyl)amino]-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl]amino]-
2-sulfophenyl] ethenyl]-, disodium salt, compd. with 2,2',2''-
nitrilotris[ethanol] (1:2) (PMN P-98-716; CAS Nos. 198716-46-0 and 
198716-48-2) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (v)(2), (w)(1), (w)(2), (x)(1), and 
(x)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notfication requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 373, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9795  Benzenesulfonic acid, 2,2'-(1,2-ethenediyl)bis[(4,
6-dichloro-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl) amino]-, disodium salt, substituted
with dialkyl amines (generic).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
benzenesulfonic acid, 2,2'-(1,2-ethenediyl)bis[(4,6-dichloro-1,3,5-
triazin-2-yl)amino]-, disodium salt, substituted with dialkyl amines 
(PMN P-98-774) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 373, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9798  Benzenesulfonic acid, 2,2'-(1,2-ethenediyl)bis[5-
[[4-substituted-6-substituted-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl]amino]-, sodium
salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
benzenesulfonic acid, 2,2'-(1,2-ethenediyl)bis[5-[[4-substituted-6-
substituted-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl]amino]-, sodium salt (PMN P-98-1222) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (v)(2), (w)(1), (w)(2), (x)(1), and 
(x)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[65 FR 374, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9800  1,3,5-Triazine, 2,4,6-trichloro-, polymer with
piperazine, reaction products with morpholine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,3,5-triazine, 
2,4,6-trichloro-, polymer with piperazine, reaction products with 
morpholine (PMN P-88-0436; CAS No. 1078142-02-5) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (b)(2), (c), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1) 
(statement-health effects not fully determined), (g)(2)(i),

[[Page 493]]

(g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), and (g)(5). The requirements of this paragraph 
shall not apply when the PMN substance is encapsulated in a polymeric 
matrix.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a) through (c), (g), and (h).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 32419, Aug. 9, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 
29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 63 FR 45956, Aug. 28, 
1998; 79 FR 34638, June 18, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9820  Substituted triazole.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance generically identified as a 
substituted triazole (PMN P-90-1731) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3), (a)(4), 
(a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 
0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(v), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), 
(g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), 
(g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), (g)(4)(ii), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 12).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44075, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9825  Phenyl substituted triazolinones.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as phenyl 
substituted triazolinones (PMNs P-93-204, P-94-1870, P-94-1871, P-94-
1872, P-94-1873, and P-94-1874) are subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), 
(a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 
percent), and (c). The imperviousness of the gloves selected pursuant to 
(a)(2)(i) of this section must be demonstrated by actual testing under 
(a)(3)(i) of this section and not by manufacturer specifications. In 
addition, there must be no permeation of the chemical substance greater 
than 15 [micro]g/day-cm\2\ as a daily cumulative total when tested in 
accordance with the most current version of the American Society for 
Testing and Materials (ASTM) F739 ``Standard Test Method for Resistance 
of Protective Clothing Materials to Permeation by Liquids or Gases'' or 
ASTM F1383 ``Standard Test Method for Resistance of Protective Clothing 
Materials to Permeation by Liquids or Gases Under Conditions of 
Intermittent Contact.''
    (A) For conditions of exposure which are intermittent, gloves may be 
tested in accordance with the most current

[[Page 494]]

version of ASTM F1383 ``Standard Test Method for Resistance of 
Protective Clothing Materials to Permeation by Liquids or Gases Under 
Conditions of Intermittent Contact,'' provided the contact time in 
testing is greater than or equal to the expected duration of dermal 
contact, and the purge time used in the testing is less than or equal to 
the expected duration of non-contact during the intermittent cycle of 
dermal exposure in the workplace. If ASTM F1383 is used for testing, the 
company must submit to the Agency a description of worker activities 
involving the chemical substance which includes daily frequencies and 
durations of potential worker exposures.
    (B) The results of all glove permeation testing must be reported in 
accordance with the most current version of (ASTM) F1194 ``Guide for 
Documenting the Results of Chemical Permeation Testing of Protective 
Clothing Materials.'' The company must submit all test data to the 
Agency and must receive written Agency approval for each type of glove 
tested prior to use of such gloves. Gloves must be discarded and 
replaced with such frequency as to ensure that they will reliably 
provide an impervious barrier to the chemical substances under normal 
and expected conditions of exposure within the work area. Gloves that 
have been damaged or are defective shall not be used. For PMNs P-94-1871 
through P-94-1874, EPA has approved North Safety Butyl Rubber gloves (32 
mils thick). For P-93-204 and P-94-1870, EPA has approved North Safety 
Butyl Rubber gloves (32 mils thick) only if used in combination with a 
chemical-resistant glove that has been demonstrated (EPA review not 
required) impermeable to the solvent, e.g., North Silvershield gloves 
and North 4H gloves.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), 
(g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 5 for all the chemical substances 
subject to the provisions of this rule combined). However, contrary to 
the requirements specified in Sec. 721.91, if the waste stream 
containing the chemical substances will be treated using activated 
carbon adsorption, then the amount of chemical substances reasonably 
likely to be removed from the waste stream by such treatment may be 
subtracted in calculating the number of kilograms released. No more than 
the following percent removal efficiencies may be attributed to such 
treatment for each PMN: P-93-204, 99 percent; P-94-1870, 98 percent; P-
94-1871, 97 percent; P-94-1872, 92 percent; P-94-1873, 90 percent; P-94-
1874, 73 percent.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (k) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3439, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9830  1-Tridecyn-3-ol, 3-methyl.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-tridecyn-3-ol, 3-
methyl (PMN P-96-236; CAS No. 100912-15-0) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Worker protection. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.63 
(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), and (a)(3).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.

[[Page 495]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3440, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9840  Tungstate (W12(OH)2O386-) hexasodium (9CI).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as tungstate 
(W12(OH)2O386-) hexasodium (9CI) (PMN P-96-1177; CAS No. 12141-67-2) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3440, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9850  2,4,8,10-Tetraoxa-3,9-diphosphaspiro[5.5]undecane,
3,9-bis[2,4,6-tris(1,1-dimethylethyl)phenoxy]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2,4,8,10-tetraoxa-
3,9-di phos phas piro[5.5]un de cane, 3,9-bis[2,4,6-tris(1,1-di meth yl 
ethyl)phen oxy]- (PMN P-91-65; CAS number 126505-35-9) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), 
(a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i) through (v), and 
(g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (h) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[57 FR 44075, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 
58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9892  1,3-Dimethyl-2-imidazolidinone.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,3-Dimethyl-2-
imidazolidinone (PMN P-93-1649, SNUN S-04-3 and S-11-3; CAS No. 80-73-9) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), and 
(g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (l) and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.

[[Page 496]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.575(b)(1) apply to this section.

[60 FR 45085, Aug. 30, 1995, as amended at 80 FR 37166, June 30, 2015]

    Editorial Note: At 80 FR 37166, June 30, 2015, Sec. 721.9892 was 
amended in part by revising paragraph (a)(2)(i) however, no text was 
provided for (a)(2)(i). Text for paragraph (a)(2)(iii) was provided with 
no amendatory instruction.


<R05>
Sec. 721.9900  Urea, condensate with poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)]
-[alpha]- (2-aminomethylethyl)-[mu]-(2-amino ethylethoxy) 
(generic name).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance urea, condensate with 
poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)]-[alpha]-(2-aminomethylethyl)-[mu]-(2-
aminoethylethoxy) (PMN P-84-482) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance: Recordkeeping requirements specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), 
(b), (c), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[55 FR 26102, June 26, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29947, 
May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9920  Urea, (hexahydro-6-methyl-2-oxopyrimidinyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance urea, (hexahydro-6-methyl-
2oxopyrimidinyl)- (PMN P-89-303) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (level set at 1,975,000 and 2,200,000 kg).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i).
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[55 FR 26102, June 26, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, 
as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9925  Aminoethylethylene urea methacrylamide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an 
aminoethylethylene urea methacrylamide (PMN P-89-1038) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Industrial, commercial and 
consumer activities. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[58 FR 51709, Oct. 4, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9928  Urea, tetraethyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 497]]

chemical substance identified as urea, tetraethyl- (PMN P-94-1017; CAS 
No. 1187-03-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), and (a)(3).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(r) (445,000 kg) (a dermal developmental 
toxicity study in mice and rats and either a chromosome aberration assay 
in mice (40 CFR 798.5385) or a micronucleus assay in mice (40 CFR 
798.5395)). A person may not manufacture or import the substance beyond 
the following aggregate production volume limits, unless that person 
conducts the following corresponding studies on the substance and 
submits all final reports and underlying data in accordance with the 
procedures and criteria specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A), 
(a)(2)(i)(B), (a)(2)(i)(C), and (a)(2)(i)(D) of this section.
    (A) Each study required to be performed pursuant to this section 
must be scientifically valid. Scientific valid means that the study was 
conducted according to:
    (1) The test guidelines specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this 
section.
    (2) An EPA-approved protocol.
    (3) TSCA Good Laboratory Practice Standards at 40 CFR part 792.
    (4) Using methodologies generally accepted at the time the study is 
initiated.
    (5) Any deviation from these requirements must be approved in 
writing by EPA.
    (B) Before starting to conduct any of the studies in paragraph 
(a)(2)(i) of this section, the person must obtain approval of test 
protocols from EPA by submitting written protocols. EPA will respond to 
the person within 4 weeks of receiving the written protocols. Published 
test guidelines specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section (e.g., 
40 CFR part 797 or part 798) provide general guidance for development of 
test protocols, but are not themselves acceptable protocols.
    (C) The person shall:
    (1) Conduct each study in good faith with due care.
    (2) Promptly furnish to EPA the results of any interim phase of each 
study.
    (3) Submit, in triplicate (with an additional sanitized copy, if 
confidential business information is involved), the final report of each 
study and all underlying data (``the report and data'') to EPA no later 
than 14 weeks prior to exceeding the applicable production volume limit. 
The final report shall contain the contents specified in 40 CFR 792.185.
    (D)(1) Except as described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(D)(2) of this 
section, if, within 6 weeks of EPA's receipt of a test report and data, 
the person receives written notice that EPA finds that the data 
generated by a study are scientifically invalid, the person is 
prohibited from further manufacture and import of the PMN substance 
beyond the applicable production volume limit.
    (2) The person may continue to manufacture and import the PMN 
substance beyond the applicable production limit only if so notified, in 
writing, by EPA in response to the person's compliance with either of 
the following paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(D)(2)(i) or (a)(2)(ii)(D)(2)(ii) of 
this section.
    (i) The person may reconduct the study. If there is sufficient time 
to reconduct the study and submit the report and data to EPA at least 14 
weeks before exceeding the production limit as required by paragraph 
(a)(2)(ii)(C)(3) of this section, the person shall comply with paragraph 
(a)(2)(ii)(C)(3) of this section. If there is insufficient time for the 
person to comply with paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(C)(3) of this section, the 
person may exceed the production limit and shall submit the report and 
data in triplicate to EPA within a reasonable period of time, all as 
specified by EPA in the notice described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(D)(1) 
of this section. EPA will respond to the person in writing, within 6 
weeks of receiving the person's report and data.
    (ii) The person may, within 4 weeks of receiving from EPA the notice 
described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(D)(1) of this section, submit to EPA a 
written report refuting EPA's finding. EPA will

[[Page 498]]

respond to the person in writing, within 4 weeks of receiving the 
person's report.
    (E) The person is not required to conduct a study specified in 
paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section if notified in writing by EPA that 
it is unnecessary to conduct that study.
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 3440, Jan. 22, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9929  Polyurea (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
polyurea (PMN P-01-716) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90(a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 70184, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9930  Urethane.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance urethane, CAS Number 51-79-6, is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Any use.
    (b) Special provisions. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Persons who must report. Section 721.5 applies to this section 
except for Sec. 721.5(a)(2). A person who intends to manufacture, 
import, or process for commercial purposes the substance identified in 
paragraph (a)(1) of this section and intends to distribute the substance 
in commerce must submit a significant new use notice.
    (2) [Reserved]

[51 FR 9453, Mar. 19, 1986. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. 
Further redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 
34204, June 23, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9952  Alkoxylated aliphatic diisocyanate allyl ether 
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkoxylated aliphatic diisocyanate allyl ether (PMN P-00-0353) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[68 FR 15089, Mar. 28, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9957  N-Nitroso-N-methylurethane.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new use subject to reporting. 
(1) The chemical substance N-nitroso-N-methylurethane (CAS No. 615-53-2) 
is subject to reporting under this section

[[Page 499]]

for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Manufacture, import, or processing 
of 10,000 pounds or more per year per facility for any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. The following recordkeeping requirements are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance, as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), (b), and (c).
    (2) [Reserved]

[58 FR 63518, Dec. 1, 1993]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9959  Polyurethane polymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
polyurethane polymer (PMN P-01-481) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[68 FR 70184, Dec. 17, 2003]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9965  Fatty acids, C [bdi1][bdi0]-[bdi1][bdi3] - branched,
vinyl esters.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as fatty acids, 
C<INF>10-13</INF> - branched, vinyl esters (PMN P-97-482; CAS No. 
184785-38-4) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii) (if data on Cartridge 
Service Life Testing has been reviewed and approved in writing by EPA). 
The following respirators may be used as specified in Sec. 721.63 
(a)(5)(xii), (a)(5)(xiii), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), (a)(6)(v), 
(b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). As an alternative to 
the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or 
processor may choose to follow the NCEL provisions listed in the TSCA 
section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 1 ppm.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(v), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(2)(i), 
(g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), 
and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4) and (b)(4) (N = 6).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[65 FR 374, Jan. 5, 2000]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9969  3,6-Bis(dialkylamino) -9-[2-alkoxycarbonyl)
phenyl]-xanthylium salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 3,6-
bis(dialkylamino) -9-[2-alkoxycarbonyl) phenyl]-xanthylium

[[Page 500]]

salt (PMN P-97-854) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f) and (j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44583, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9970  o-Xylene compound (generic name).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an o-
xylene compound (PMN P-95-1030) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[61 FR 63740, Dec. 2, 1996]


<R05>
Sec. 721.9973  Zirconium dichlorides (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
zirconium dichlorides (PMNs P-97-179/181/189/769/775/781/782/783) are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 20).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[63 FR 44583, Aug. 20, 1998]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10000  Certain polybrominated diphenylethers.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as tetrabromodiphenyl 
ether (CAS No. 40088-47-9; Benzene, 1,1'-oxybis-, tetrabromo deriv.), 
pentabromodiphenyl ether (CAS No. 32534-81-9; Benzene, 1,1'-oxybis-, 
pentabromo deriv.), hexabromodiphenyl ether (CAS No. 36483-60-0; 
Benzene, 1,1'-oxybis-, hexabromo deriv.), heptabromodiphenyl ether (CAS 
No. 68928-80-3; Benzene, 1,1'-oxybis-, heptabromo deriv.), 
octabromodiphenyl ether (CAS No. 32536-52-0; Benzene, 1,1'-oxybis-, 
octabromo deriv.), and nonabromodiphenyl ether (CAS No. 63936-56-1; 
Benzene, pentabromo(tetrabromophenoxy)-), or any combination of these 
substances resulting from a chemical reaction are subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is manufacture or import for any use on 
or after January 1, 2005.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Persons who must report. Section 721.5 applies to this section 
except for Sec. 721.5(a)(2). A person who intends to

[[Page 501]]

manufacture or import for commercial purposes a substance identified in 
paragraph (a)(1) of this section and intends to distribute the substance 
in commerce must submit a significant new use notice.
    (2) [Reserved]

[71 FR 34021, June 13, 2006]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10001  2-Ethoxyethanol, 2-ethoxyethanol acetate,
2-methoxyethanol, and 2-methoxyethanol acetate.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as 2-ethoxyethanol 
(CAS No. 110-80-5), 2-ethoxyethanol acetate (CAS No. 111-15-9), 2-
methoxyethanol (CAS No. 109-86-4), and 2-methoxyethanol acetate (CAS No. 
110-49-6) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is domestic use in a consumer product or 
the manufacture or import of 2-methoxyethanol acetate at levels greater 
than 10,000 pounds per year.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), and (c) apply to the significant new use specified in 
Sec. 721.10001. In addition, records documenting compliance with the 
significant new use of domestic use in a consumer product or the 
manufacture or import of 2-methoxyethanol acetate at levels greater than 
10,000 pounds per year must be maintained.
    (2) [Reserved]

[70 FR 71406, Nov. 29, 2005]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10002  2-Thiazolidinone.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-thiazolidinone 
(PMN P-97-415; CAS No. 2682-49-7) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (b), and (c). The following 
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-approved 
respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of 10-25 meet the 
minimum requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): Air-purifying, tight-
fitting respirator (either half- or full-face) equipped with N100 (if 
aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters; powered air-purifying 
respirator equipped with a loose-fitting hood or helmet and High 
Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters; powered air-purifying 
respirator equipped with a tight-fitting facepiece (either half- or 
full-face) and HEPA filters; and supplied-air respirator operated in 
pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or 
helmet or tight-fitting facepiece (either half- or full-face). As an 
alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, 
importer, or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure 
limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order 
for this substance. The NCEL is 0.7 mg/m\3\ as an 8-hour time-weighted 
average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to the Sec. 
721.63 respirator requirements may request to do so under 40 CFR 721.30. 
Persons whose Sec. 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are 
approved by EPA will receive NCELs provisions comparable to those 
contained in the corresponding section 5(e) consent order.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), 
(g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv) (use respiratory protection or 
maintain workplace airborne concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-
weighted average of 0.7 mg/m\3\), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), 
(g)(4)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5). The following statement shall 
appear on each label as specified in Sec. 721.72(b) and the Material 
Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) as specified in Sec. 721.72(c). The substance 
may cause severe eye irritation. The substance may cause internal organ 
effects (blood, liver, and kidney). The substance may cause 
developmental/maternal effects. When handling this

[[Page 502]]

substance as a powder, use respiratory protection.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (g), (p) (300,000 kilograms), (v)(1), 
(w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(a)(2), (a)(3), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(3).
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), (j), and (k) are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14697, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10003  Manganese heterocyclic tetraamine complex (generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
manganese heterocyclic tetraamine complex (PMNs P-98-625/626/627/628/629 
and P-00-614/617) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(s) (10,000 kilograms per chemical substance).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14698, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10004  2-Butenoic acid, 4,4'-[(dibutylstannylene)bis(oxy)]
bis[4-oxo-, (2Z,2'Z)-, di-C [bdi8]-[bdi1][bdi0]-isoalkyl esters,
C [bdi9]-rich.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-butenoic acid, 
4,4'-[(dibutylstannylene)bis(oxy)]bis[4-oxo-, (2Z,2'Z)-, di-
C<INF>8-10</INF>-isoalkyl esters, C<INF>9</INF>-rich (PMN P-98-1181; CAS 
No. 247041-56-1) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), and (a)(3).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(2), (w)(2), (x)(2), and (y)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14698, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10005  2-Butenoic acid, 4,4'-[(dibutylstannylene)bis(oxy)]
bis [4-oxo-, (2Z,2'Z)-, di-C [bdi9]-[bdi1][bdi1]-isoalkyl esters,
C [bdi1][bdi0]-rich.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-butenoic acid, 4 
,4'-[(dibutylstannylene)bis(oxy)]bis [4-oxo-, (2Z,2'Z)-, di-
C<INF>9-11</INF>-isoalkyl esters, C<INF>10</INF>-rich (PMN P-98-1182) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), and (a)(3).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(2), (w)(2), (x)(2), and (y)(1).

[[Page 503]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14698, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10006  Mixed metal oxide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as mixed 
metal oxide (PMN P-99-511) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(s) (60,000 kilograms).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14698, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10007  Alcohols, C [bdi1][bdi2]-[bdi1][bdi4]-secondary,
ethoxylated propoxylated.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as alcohols, 
C<INF>12-14</INF>- secondary, ethoxylated propoxylated (PMN P-00-11; CAS 
No. 103331-86-8) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 50).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14698, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10008  Manganese strontium oxide (MnSrO [bdi3]).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as manganese strontium 
oxide (MnSrO<INF>3</INF>) (PMN P-00-1121; CAS No. 12163-45-0) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(viii), 
(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), 
and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (manufacture, processing, or use of the 
PMN substance if the particle size is less than 10 microns).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14699, Mar. 29, 2007, as amended at 80 FR 37166, June 30, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10009  Manganese yttrium oxide (MnYO [bdi3]).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 504]]

chemical substance identified as manganese yttrium oxide 
(MnYO<INF>3</INF>) (PMN P-00-1122; CAS No. 12032-75-6) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(viii), 
(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), 
and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (k) (manufacture, processing, or use of the 
PMN substance if the particle size is less than 10 microns) and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[72 FR 14699, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10010  Barium manganese oxide (BaMnO [bdi3]).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as barium manganese 
oxide (BaMnO<INF>3</INF>) (PMN P-00-1123; CAS No. 12230-80-7) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(viii), 
(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), 
and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (k) (manufacture, processing, or use of the 
PMN substance if the particle size is less than 10 microns) and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[72 FR 14699, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10011  Barium calcium manganese strontium oxide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as barium calcium 
manganese strontium oxide (PMN P-00-1124; CAS No. 359427-90-0) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(viii), 
(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), 
and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (k) (manufacture, processing, or use of the 
PMN substance if the particle size is less than 10 microns) and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 505]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[72 FR 14699, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10012  Manganate (MnO [bdi2] \1-\), calcium (2:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as manganate 
(MnO<INF>2</INF><SUP>1-</SUP>), calcium (2:1) (PMN P-00-1125; CAS No. 
12049-47-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(viii), 
(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), 
and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (k) (manufacture, processing, or use of the 
PMN substance if the particle size is less than 10 microns) and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[72 FR 14700, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10013  Manganese yttrium oxide (Mn [bdi2]YO [bdi5]).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as manganese yttrium 
oxide (Mn<INF>2</INF>YO<INF>5</INF>) (PMN P-00-1126; CAS No. 12438-71-0) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(viii), 
(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), 
and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (k) (manufacture, processing, or use of the 
PMN substance if the particle size is less than 10 microns) and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[72 FR 14700, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10014  Halogenated naphthalic anhydride (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
halogenated naphthalic anhydride (PMN P-01-109) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]

[[Page 506]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14700, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10015  Halogenated benzimidazole (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
halogenated benzimidazole (PMN P-01-110) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14700, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10016  Dibenzimidazothianaphthalene (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
dibenzimidazothianaphthalene (PMN P-01-111) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14700, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10017  Amine terminated bisphenol A diglycidyl ether polymer
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as amine 
terminated bisphenol A diglycidyl ether polymer (PMNs P-01-257/258/259 
and P-01-261) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14700, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10018  Calcium hydroxide oxide silicate (Ca [bdi6](OH)
[bdi2]O [bdi2](Si [bdi2]O [bdi5]) [bdi3]).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as calcium hydroxide 
oxide silicate 
(Ca<INF>6</INF>(OH)<INF>2</INF>O<INF>2</INF>(Si<INF>2</INF>O<INF>5</INF>)
<INF>3</INF>) (PMN P-01-442; CAS No. 13169-90-9) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 507]]

    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (j) (use other than as filler to 
reinforce resins, additive for resins, and filter medium), (v)(1), and 
(x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14701, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10019  Benzoic acid, 2-chloro-5-nitro-, 1,1-dimethyl-2-oxo
-2-(2-propenyloxy) ethyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzoic acid, 2-
chloro-5-nitro-, 1,1-dimethyl-2-oxo-2-(2-propenyloxy) ethyl ester (PMN 
P-01-563; CAS No. 174489-76-0) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14701, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10020  Benzoic acid, 5-amino-2-chloro-, 1,1-dimethyl-2-oxo
-2-(2-propenyloxy) ethyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzoic acid, 5-
amino-2-chloro-, 1,1-dimethyl-2-oxo-2-(2-propenyloxy) ethyl ester (PMN 
P-01-564; CAS No. 174489-43-1) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14701, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10021  Magnesium potassium titanium oxide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as magnesium potassium 
titanium oxide (PMN P-01-764; CAS No. 39290-90-9) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and 
(c). The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health 
(NIOSH)-approved respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of 
10-25 meet the minimum requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): Air-
purifying, tight-fitting respirator equipped with N100 (if aerosols 
absent), R100, or P100 filters (either half- or full-face); powered air-
purifying respirator equipped with a loose-fitting hood or helmet and 
High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters; powered air-purifying 
respirator equipped with a tight-fitting facepiece (either half- or 
full-face) and HEPA filters; and supplied-air respirator operated in 
pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or 
helmet or tight-fitting facepiece (either half- or full-face). As an 
alternative to

[[Page 508]]

the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or 
processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) 
provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this 
substance. The NCEL is 5 mg/m\3\ as an 8-hour time-weighted average. 
Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to the Sec. 721.63 
respirator requirements may request to do so under 40 CFR 721.30. 
Persons whose Sec. 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are 
approved by EPA will receive NCELs provisions comparable to those 
contained in the corresponding section 5(e) consent order.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv) (use respiratory protection or 
maintain workplace airborne concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-
weighted average of 5 mg/m\3\) and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[72 FR 14701, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10022  Benzenamine, N-phenyl-, r'-(C [bdi9]-rich C [bdi8]
-[bdi1][bdi0]-branched alkyl) derivs.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzenamine, N-
phenyl-, ar'-(C<INF>9</INF>-rich C<INF>8-10</INF>-branched alkyl) derivs 
(PMN P-01-769; CAS No. 333955-69-4) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (antioxidant for lubricating oils).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14701, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10023  Benzenamine, N-phenyl-, ar,ar'-(C [bdi9]-rich 
C [bdi8]-[bdi1][bdi0]-branched alkyl) derivs.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzenamine, N-
phenyl-, ar,ar'-(C<INF>9</INF>-rich C<INF>8-10</INF>-branched alkyl) 
derivs (PMN P-01-770; CAS No. 333955-70-7) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (antioxidant for lubricating oils).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14702, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10024  10H-Phenothiazine, ar-(C [bdi9]-rich C [bdi8]-[bdi1]
[bdi0]-branched alkyl) derivs.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 10H-phenothiazine, 
ar-(C<INF>9</INF>-rich C<INF>8-10</INF>-

[[Page 509]]

branched alkyl) derivs (PMN P-01-771; CAS No. 333955-79-6) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (antioxidant for lubricating oils).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14702, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10025  10H-Phenothiazine, ar, ar'-(C [bdi9]-rich C [bdi8]-
[bdi1][bdi0]-branched alkyl) derivs.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as 10H-phenothiazine, 
ar, ar'-(C<INF>9</INF>-rich C<INF>8-10</INF>-branched alkyl) derivs (PMN 
P-01-772; CAS No. 333955-80-9) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (antioxidant for lubricating oils).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14702, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10026  Cashew, nutshell liq., ethoxylated.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as cashew, nutshell 
liq., ethoxylated (PMN P-01-856; CAS No. 350820-95-0) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (any manufacturing, processing, or use of 
the PMN substance with less than 55 moles of the ethoxy or with an 
average molecular weight less than 2,700 daltons).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14702, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10027  Ethoxylated alkylsulfate, substituted alkylamine
salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
ethoxylated alkylsulfate, substituted alkylamine salt (PMN P-01-862) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 510]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[72 FR 14702, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10028  Disubstituted benzene metal salts (generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
disubstituted benzene metal salts (PMNs P-01-901 and P-01-902) are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1) and (a)(3).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[72 FR 14703, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10029  Isocyanate compound, modified with methoxysilane 
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
isocyanate compound, modified with methoxysilane (PMN P-01-918) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3), 
(a)(4), and (a)(6). The following National Institute for Occupational 
Safety and Health (NIOSH)-approved respirators meet the minimum 
requirement for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): Air-purifying, tight-fitting full-
face respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or 
P100 filters; powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-
fitting full facepiece and High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) 
filters; supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or 
continuous flow mode and equipped with a tight-fitting full facepiece. 
As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a 
manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow the new 
chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.05 mg/m\3\ as an 8-
hour time-weighted average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an 
alternative to the Sec. 721.63 respirator requirements may request to 
do so under 40 CFR 721.30. Persons whose Sec. 721.30 requests to use 
the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will receive NCELs provisions 
comparable to those contained in the corresponding section 5(e) consent 
order.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv) (use 
respiratory protection or maintain workplace airborne concentrations at 
or below an 8-hour time-weighted average of 0.05 mg/m\3\), (g)(2)(v), 
and (g)(5). The following statements shall appear on each label as 
specified in Sec. 721.72(b) and the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) 
as specified in Sec. 721.72(c): This substance may cause skin 
irritation and sensitization.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are

[[Page 511]]

applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[72 FR 14703, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10030  Pyrimido[5,4-g]pteridine-2,4,6,8-tetramine,
4-methylbenzenesulfonate, base-hydrolyzed.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as pyrimido[5,4-
g]pteridine-2,4,6,8-tetramine, 4-methylbenzenesulfonate, base-hydrolyzed 
(PMN P-01-919; CAS No. 346709-25-9) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14703, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10031  Lithium potassium titanium oxide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as lithium potassium 
titanium oxide (PMN P-02-214; CAS No. 39318-30-4) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and 
(c). The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health 
(NIOSH)-approved respirators with an APF of 10-25 meet the minimum 
requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): Air-purifying, tight-fitting 
respirator (either half- or full-face) equipped with N100 (if aerosols 
absent), R100, or P100 filters; powered air-purifying, respirator 
equipped with a loose-fitting hood or helmet or tight-fitting facepiece 
(either half- or full-face) and High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) 
filters; and supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or 
continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet or tight-fitting 
facepiece (either half- or full-face). As an alternative to the 
respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or 
processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) 
provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this 
substance. The NCEL is 5 mg/m\3\ as an 8-hour time-weighted average. 
Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to the Sec. 721.63 
respirator requirements may request to do so under 40 CFR 721.30. 
Persons whose Sec. 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are 
approved by EPA will receive NCELs provisions comparable to those 
contained in the corresponding section 5(e) consent order.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv) (use respiratory protection or 
maintain workplace airborne concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-
weighted average of 5 mg/m\3\), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[[Page 512]]

    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[72 FR 14703, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10032  Acrylic acid, polymer with substituted acrylamides
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as acrylic 
acid, polymer with substituted acrylamides (PMN P-02-269) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (any manufacturing, processing, or use of 
the PMN substance with an aerodynamic diameter less than 10 microns).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14704, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10033  Zinc, [ethanedioato(2-)-. kappa. O\1\, . kappa. O\2\]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as zinc, 
[ethanedioato(2-)-. kappa. O\1\, . kappa. O\2\]- (PMN P-02-322; CAS No. 
547-68-2) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90 (a)(4), 
(b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14704, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10034  Substituted pyridine coupled with diazotized
substituted nitrobenzonitrile, diazotized substituted benzenamine
and substituted pyridinecarbonitrile (generic)
          .

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted pyridine coupled with diazotized substituted 
nitrobenzonitrile, diazotized substituted benzenamine and substituted 
pyridinecarbonitrile (PMN P-02-359) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90 (a)(4), 
(b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14704, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10035  Alkylbenzene sulfonate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkylbenzene sulfonate (PMN-02-382) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (manufacture, import, or processing of the 
chemical without

[[Page 513]]

19 percent or more mineral oil as a diluent).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14704, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10036  Acetaldehyde based polymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
acetaldehyde based polymer (PMN P-02-406) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90 (b)(1) 
and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14704, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10037  Complex halogenated salt of tris
(ethylatedaminocarbocyclic)methane (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as complex 
halogenated salt of tris(ethylatedaminocarbocyclic)methane (PMN P-02-
423) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (d) and (e).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14704, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10038  Trimellitic anhydride, polymer with substituted
glycol, alkyl phenols and ethoxylated nonylphenol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
trimellitic anhydride, polymer with substituted glycol, alkyl phenols 
and ethoxylated nonylphenol (PMN P-02-434) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14697, Mar. 29, 2007]

[[Page 514]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10039  Diethoxybenzenamine derivative, diazotized, coupled
with aminonaphthalenesulfonic acid derivative, ammonium salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
diethoxybenzenamine derivative, diazotized, coupled with 
aminonaphthalenesulfonic acid derivative, ammonium salt (PMN P-02-514) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (v)(2), and (x)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14705, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10040  Substituted acridine naphtha substituted benzamide
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
substituted acridine naphtha substituted benzamide (PMN P-02-522) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90 (a)(4), 
(b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14705, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10041  1-Butanone, 2-(dimethylamino)-2-[(4-methylphenyl)
methyl]-1-[4-(4-morpholinyl)phenyl]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-butanone, 2-
(dimethylamino)-2-[(4-methylphenyl)methyl]-1-[4-(4-morpholinyl)phenyl]-
(PMN P-02-530; CAS No. 119344-86-4) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14705, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10042  2-Propanol, 1-[bis(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propanol, 1-
[bis(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]- (PMN P-02-585; CAS No. 6712-98-7) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),

[[Page 515]]

(b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[72 FR 14705, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10043  Dineopentyl-4-substituted phthalate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
dineopentyl-4-substituted phthalate (PMN P-02-697) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[72 FR 14705, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10044  Metal oxide, modified with alkyl and vinyl terminated
polysiloxanes (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as metal 
oxide, modified with alkyl and vinyl terminated polysiloxanes (PMN P-02-
698) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14706, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10045  Diazotized substituted heteromonocycle coupled with
naphthalene sulfonic acid derivative, nickel complex, alkaline salt
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
diazotized substituted heteromonocycle coupled with naphthalene sulfonic 
acid derivative, nickel complex, alkaline salt (PMN P-02-737) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (v)(2), and (x)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14706, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10046  Polyaromatic amine phosphate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyaromatic amine phosphate

[[Page 516]]

(PMN P-02-747) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14706, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10047  Polyphosphoric acids, compds. with piperazine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as a polyphosphoric 
acids, compds. with piperazine (PMN P-02-766; CAS No. 383905-85-9) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[72 FR 14706, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10048  Substituted anthraquinone (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted anthraquinone (PMN P-02-869) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(s) (4,500 kilograms).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14706, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10049  Phenol, 4,4'- cyclohexylidene bis[2-methyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as a phenol, 4,4'- 
cyclohexylidene bis[2-methyl- (PMN P-02-912; CAS No. 2362-14-3) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14706, Mar. 29, 2007]

[[Page 517]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10050  Disubstituted-N'- hydroxy-benzenecarboximidamide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
disubstituted-N'- hydroxy-benzenecarboximidamide (PMN P-02-929) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14707, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10051  Spiro naphthoxazine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as spiro 
naphthoxazine (PMN P-02-961) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14707, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10052  Aminoalkyl substituted alkylphenol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
aminoalkyl substituted alkylphenol (PMN P-02-1088) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[72 FR 14707, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10053  Alkyl silane methacrylate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkyl 
silane methacrylate (PMN P-03-41) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.

[[Page 518]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14707, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10054  Phenol, polymer with formaldehyde, 
3-[(2-aminocyclohexyl)amino]-2-hydroxypropyl ethers.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a 
phenol, polymer with formaldehyde, 3-[(2-aminocyclohexyl)amino]-2-
hydroxypropyl ethers (PMN P-03-43; CAS No. 452082-53-0) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified Sec. 721.90 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 14707, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10055  1-Propanaminium, 3-amino-N-(carboxymethyl)
-N,N-dimethyl-, N-soya acyl derivs., inner salts.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-propanaminium, 3-
amino-N-(carboxymethyl)-N,N-dimethyl-, N-soya acyl derivs., inner salts 
(PMN P-03-46; CAS No. 136504-87-5) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[72 FR 14707, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10056  Benzenemethanaminium, N-(3-aminopropyl)-N,N-dimethyl-
, N-soya acyl derivs., chlorides.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 
benzenemethanaminium, N-(3-aminopropyl)-N,N-dimethyl-, N-soya acyl 
derivs., chlorides (PMN P-03-47; CAS No. 90194-13-1) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[72 FR 14708, Mar. 29, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10057  Dodecanedioic acid, 1, 12-dihydrazide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as dodecanedioic acid, 
1, 12-dihydrazide (PMNs P-01-759 and P-05-555; CAS No. 4080-98-2) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new

[[Page 519]]

uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), 
(b), and (c). Respirators must provide a National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) 
of at least 50. The following NIOSH-approved respirators meet the 
minimum requirement for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): Air-purifying, tight-fitting 
full-face respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, 
or P100 filters; powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-
fitting full facepiece and High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) 
filters; supplied air respirator operated in pressure demand or 
continuous flow mode and equipped with a tight-fitting full facepiece. 
Because the substance is a dermal sensitizer and irritates mucous 
membranes, half-face respirators do not provide adequate protection.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), and (g)(2)(i).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 32465, July 8, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10058  Reaction product of alkylphenol, aromatic cyclicamine,
alkyl diglycidyl dibenzene, and formaldehyde (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as reaction 
product of alkylphenol, aromatic cyclicamine, alkyl diglycidyl 
dibenzene, and formaldehyde (PMN P-03-546) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53482, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10059  Reaction product of alkylphenyl glycidyl ether,
polyalkylenepolyamine, and alkyl diglycidyl dibenzene (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as reaction 
product of alkylphenyl glycidyl ether, polyalkylenepolyamine, and alkyl 
diglycidyl dibenzene (PMN P-03-550) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53482, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10060  Reaction product of alkylphenyl glycidyl ether,
polyalkylenepolyamine, alkyl diglycidyl dibenzene, and 
polyalkylcyclicdiamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 520]]

chemical substance identified generically as reaction product of 
alkylphenyl glycidyl ether, polyalkylenepolyamine, alkyl diglycidyl 
dibenzene, and polyalkylcyclicdiamine (PMN P-03-551) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53482, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10061  Pentane, 1,1,1,2,2,3,4,5,5,5-decafluoro-3-methoxy-4
-(trifluoromethyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as pentane, 
1,1,1,2,2,3,4,5,5,5-decafluoro-3-methoxy-4-(trifluoromethyl)- (PMN P-04-
341; CAS No. 132182-92-4) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53482, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10062  2,5-Furandione, polymer with oxybis[propanol], benzoate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2,5-furandione, 
polymer with oxybis[propanol], benzoate (PMN P-04-627; CAS No. 103458-
14-6) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53482, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10063  Halo substituted hydroxy nitrophenyl amide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as halo 
substituted hydroxy nitrophenyl amide (PMN P-04-792) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53482, Sept. 19, 2007]

[[Page 521]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10064  2-Propenoic acid, 2-[2-(ethenyloxy)ethoxy]ethyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenoic acid, 2-
[2-(ethenyloxy)ethoxy]ethyl ester (PMN P-04-909; CAS No. 86273-46-3) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3)(i), (b), and (c). North Butyl Black 
gloves and T-1 Dailove Ethylene Vinylalcohol Copolymer Laminated Blue 
gloves have been demonstrated to satisfy (a)(3)(i). Other demonstrated 
impervious gloves that satisfy (a)(3)(i) are also permissible.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), 
(g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[72 FR 53482, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10065  1-Tetradecanesulfonic acid, (dimethylphenyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-
tetradecanesulfonic acid, (dimethylphenyl)- (PMN P-04-961; CAS No. 
671756-61-9) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53483, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10066  1-Hexanesulfonic acid, (dimethylphenyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-hexanesulfonic 
acid, (dimethylphenyl)- (PMN P-04-962; CAS No. 676143-36-5) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53483, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10067  Ether amine phosphonate salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as ether 
amine phosphonate salt (PMNs P-05-57, P-05-58, P-05-59, P-05-61, P-05-
62, P-05-63, P-05-64, and P-05-65) are subject to reporting under this

[[Page 522]]

section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53483, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10068  Elemental mercury.

    (a) Barometer means an instrument used in various applications to 
measure atmospheric pressure.
    Definitions. The definitions in Sec. 721.3 apply to this section. 
In addition, the following definitions apply:
    Flow meter means an instrument used in various applications to 
measure the flow rate of liquids or gases.
    Hygrometer means an instrument used in various applications to 
measure humidity of gases.
    Manometer means an instrument used in various applications to 
measure pressure of gases or liquids.
    Motor vehicle has the meaning found at 40 CFR 85.1703.
    Natural gas manometer means an instrument used in the natural gas 
industry to measure gas pressure.
    Psychrometer means an instrument used in various applications to 
measure humidity of gases.
    Pyrometer means an instrument used in various applications to 
measure extremely high temperatures.
    (b) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance elemental mercury (CAS. No. 7439-
97-6) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Manufacture or processing of elemental mercury for use in 
convenience light switches in new motor vehicles.
    (ii) Manufacture or processing of elemental mercury for use in 
convenience light switches as new aftermarket replacement parts for 
motor vehicles.
    (iii) Manufacture or processing of elemental mercury for use in 
switches in anti-lock brake systems (ABS) in new motor vehicles.
    (iv) Manufacture or processing of elemental mercury for use in 
switches in ABS as new aftermarket replacement parts for motor vehicles 
that were manufactured after January 1, 2003.
    (v) Manufacture or processing of elemental mercury for use in 
switches in active ride control systems in new motor vehicles.
    (vi) Manufacture or processing of elemental mercury for use in 
switches in active ride control systems as new aftermarket replacement 
parts for motor vehicles that were manufactured after January 1, 2003.
    (vii) Manufacturing or processing of elemental mercury for use in 
flow meters, natural gas manometers, and pyrometers except for use in 
these articles when they are in service as of September 11, 2009.
    (viii) Manufacturing or processing of elemental mercury for use in 
barometers, manometers, hygrometers, and psychrometers except for: 
Natural gas manometers covered by paragraph (b)(2)(vii) of this section; 
barometers, manometers, hygrometers, and psychrometers that were in 
service prior to May 6, 2011; and portable battery powered and motor-
aspirated psychrometers that contain fewer than seven grams of elemental 
mercury.
    (c) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Suspension or revocation of certain notification exemptions. The 
provisions of Sec. 721.45(f) do not apply to this section. A person who 
imports or processes elemental mercury as part of an article is not 
exempt from submitting a significant new use notice.
    (2) [Reserved]

[72 FR 56911, Oct. 5, 2007, as amended at 75 FR 42336, July 21, 2010; 77 
FR 31734, May 30, 2012]

[[Page 523]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10069  Ether amine phosphonate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as ether 
amine phosphonate (PMN P-05-60) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53483, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10070  1,3-Butanediol, 3-methyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,3-butanediol, 3-
methyl- (PMN P-05-309; CAS No. 2568-33-4) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f) and (j)(use as inkjet ink).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53483, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10071  9H-Thioxanthenium, 10-[1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl-2-
(1-methylethyl)-9-oxo-, hexafluorophosphate (1-) (1:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 9H-thioxanthenium, 
10-[1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl-2-(1-methylethyl)-9-oxo-, hexafluorophosphate 
(1-) (1:1) (PMN P-05-364; CAS No. 591773-92-1) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (v)(2), (w)(2), and (x)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53483, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10072  Benzene, 1,1'-methylenebis[4-isocyanato-, polymer with
benzenedicarboxylic acid, butyl dialkyl ester, poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-
ethanediyl)],.alpha.-hydro-.omega.-hydroxy-, oxirane, alkyl-, polymer
with oxirane, ether with propanepolyol and Sartomer's HLBH P-3000 
 and Lexorez 1180 (generic).

          
         
    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as benzene, 
1,1'-methylenebis[4-isocyanato-, polymer with benzenedicarboxylic acid, 
butyl dialkyl ester, poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)], .alpha.-
hydro-.omega.-hydroxy-, oxirane, alkyl-, polymer with oxirane, ether 
with propanepolyol and Sartomer's HLBH P-3000 and Lexorez 1180 (PMN P-
05-380) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 524]]

    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(y)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53484, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10073  Modified alkyl acrylamide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as modified 
alkyl acrylamide (PMN P-05-536) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[72 FR 53484, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10074  Acetic acid, 2-chloro-, 1-(3,3-dimethylcyclohexyl)
ethyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as acetic acid, 2-
chloro-, 1-(3,3-dimethylcyclohexyl)ethyl ester (PMN P-05-568; CAS No. 
477218-59-0) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(h).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53484, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10075  Carbon black, 4-[[2-(Sulfooxy) ethyl]substituted]
phenyl- modified, sodium salts (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as carbon 
black, 4-[[2-(Sulfooxy) ethyl]substituted] phenyl-modified, sodium salts 
(PMN P-05-722) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (j), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[[Page 525]]

    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[72 FR 53484, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10076  Substituted benzenediamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted benzenediamine (PMN P-05-792) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53484, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10077  3H-1,2,4-Triazol-3-one, 1,2-dihydro-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 3H-1,2,4-triazol-3-
one, 1,2-dihydro- (PMNs P-06-1 and P-06-166; CAS No. 930-33-6) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6), (b), and (c). Respirators must provide a 
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned 
protection factor of at least 10. The following NIOSH-approved 
respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of 10-25 meet the 
minimum requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): Air-purifying, tight-
fitting respirator equipped with N100 (if aerosols absent), R100, or 
P100 filters (either half- or full-face); powered air-purifying 
respirator equipped with a loose-fitting hood or helmet and High 
Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters; powered air-purifying 
respirator equipped with a tight-fitting facepiece (either half- or 
full-face) and HEPA filters; and supplied-air respirator operated in 
pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or 
helmet or tight-fitting facepiece (either half- or full-face).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(3)(ii), and (g)(4)(iii).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53485, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10078  Butanamide, 2-[(2-methoxy-4-nitrophenyl)azo]-N-
(2-methoxyphenyl)-3-oxo-, 4-[(17-substituted-3,6,9,12,15-
pentaazaheptadec-1- yl)substituted]phenyl derivs., hydrochlorides
(generic).
         

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
butanamide, 2-[(2-methoxy-4-nitrophenyl)azo]-N-(2-methoxyphenyl)-3-oxo-, 
4-[(17-substituted-3,6,9,12,15-pentaazaheptadec-1-yl)substituted]phenyl 
derivs., hydrochlorides (PMN P-06-4) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (ii) [Reserved]

[[Page 526]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53485, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10079  Quino[2,3-b]acridine-7, 14-dione, 5,12-dihydro-2,9
-dimethyl-, 4-[(17-substituted-3,6,9,12,15-pentaazaheptadec-1-yl)
substituted]phenyl derivs., hydrochlorides (generic).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
quino[2,3-b]acridine-7, 14-dione, 5,12-dihydro-2,9-dimethyl-, 4-[(17-
substituted-3,6,9,12,15-pentaazaheptadec-1-yl)substituted]phenyl 
derivs., hydrochlorides (PMN P-06-7) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (j), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[72 FR 53485, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10080  Carbon black, 4-[(17-substituted-3,6,9,12,15-
pentaazaheptadec-1-yl) substituted] phenyl-modified, hydrochlorides
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as carbon 
black, 4-[(17-substituted-3,6,9,12,15-pentaazaheptadec-1-yl) 
substituted] phenyl-modified, hydrochlorides (PMN P-06-8) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (j), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[72 FR 53485, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10081  Aromatic urethane acrylate oligomer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as aromatic 
urethane acrylate oligomer (PMN P-06-26) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]

[[Page 527]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53485, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10082  Amine modified monomer acrylate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as amine 
modified monomer acrylate (PMN P-06-29) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53486, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10083  Copper, [29H, 31H-phthalocyaninato (2-)-N29, N30, N31,
N32]-, 4-[(17-substituted-3,6,9,12,15- pentaazaheptadec-1-yl)
substituted] phenyl derivs., hydrochlorides (generic).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as copper, 
[29H, 31H-phthalocyaninato (2-)-N29, N30, N31, N32]-, 4-[(17-
substituted-3,6,9,12,15- pentaazaheptadec-1-yl) substituted] phenyl 
derivs., hydrochlorides (PMN P-06-70) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (j), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[72 FR 53486, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10084  Modified thionocarbamate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as modified 
thionocarbamate (PMN P-06-124 is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.

[[Page 528]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53486, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10085  Substituted polyaryl sulfonium polyhalide phosphate
salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted polyaryl sulfonium polyhalide phosphate salt (PMN P-06-232) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f) and (j) (photo initiator used in photo-
curable compositions).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53486, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10086  Ethane, 2-(difluoromethoxy)-1,1,1-trifluoro-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as ethane, 2-
(difluoromethoxy)-1,1,1-trifluoro- (PMN P-06-295; CAS No. 1885-48-9) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b), and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53486, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10087  Substituted alkyl phosphine oxide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted alkyl phosphine oxide (PMN P-06-332) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(s) (100,000 kilograms/year).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[72 FR 53487, Sept. 19, 2007]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10088  Thiophene, 2,5-dibromo-3-hexyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as thiophene, 2,5-
dibromo-3-hexyl- (PMN P-07-283; CAS No. 116971-11-0) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(s) (4,500 kilograms).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).

[[Page 529]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 32465, July 8, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10089  Modified salicylic acid, zirconium complex (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as modified 
salicylic acid, zirconium complex (PMN P-00-552) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65758, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10090  Tertiary amine salt of glycol succinate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as tertiary 
amine salt of glycol succinate (PMN P-01-595) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (A) Restricting the manufacture of the PMN substance with only those 
feedstocks specified in the PMN submission.
    (B) Manufacture, import, or processing of the PMN substance without 
analyzing representative samples of the chemical substance to determine 
compliance with the requirements in Sec. 721.10090(a)(2)(i)(A). To 
ensure compliance, the PMN substance must be analyzed (1) at the time of 
initial commencement of non-exempt commercial manufacture of the 
chemical substance, and (2) at least annually thereafter during every 
year in which the substance is manufactured.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[73 FR 65758, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10091  2(1H)-Pyrimidinone, tetrahydro-1,3-dimethyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2(1H)-pyrimidinone, 
tetrahydro-1,3-dimethyl- (PMN P-02-135; CAS No. 7226-23-5) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3)(i), (b), and (c). Best's Viton model 
890, Best's Butyl model 874, and Best's Butyl 878 have been 
demonstrated to satisfy Sec. 721.63(a)(3)(i). Other demonstrated 
impervious gloves that satisfy Sec. 721.63(a)(3)(i) are permissible.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (j) (aprotic solvent and catalyst), 
and (s) (20,000 kg).

[[Page 530]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[73 FR 65758, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10092  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-sulfo-.omega.
-[[1-[(2-propen-1-yloxy)methyl]undecyl]oxy]-, ammonium salt (1:1);
Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-sulfo-.omega.-[[1-[(2-propen-1-
yloxy)methyl]tridecyl]oxy]-, ammonium salt (1:1).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as poly(oxy-1,2-
ethanediyl), .alpha.-sulfo-.omega.-[[1-[(2-propen-1-
yloxy)methyl]undecyl]oxy]-, ammonium salt (1:1); poly(oxy-1,2-
ethanediyl), .alpha.-sulfo-.omega.-[[1-[(2-propen-1-
yloxy)methyl]tridecyl]oxy]-, ammonium salt (1:1) (PMN P-02-421; CAS Nos. 
352661-91-7 and 224646-44-0) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (no manufacture or import of the PMN 
substance unless: (1) The mean number of moles of the ethoxy group is 
equal to or greater than 8 or (2) the average molecular weight is 
greater than 721 daltons). Representative samples of the PMN substance 
must be analyzed and determined to comply with these requirements both 
at the time of initial commencement and annually thereafter.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65758, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10093  Alkylamides, ethoxylated (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
alkylamides, ethoxylated (PMNs P-03-12 and P-03-13) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65759, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10094  Decene, branched and linear.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as decene, branched and 
linear (PMN P-03-272; CAS No. 833482-31-8) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 531]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Record keeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65759, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10095  Oxetane, 3,3'-[oxybis(methylene)] bis[3-ethyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as oxetane, 3,3'-
[oxybis(methylene)] bis[3-ethyl- (PMN P-03-471; CAS No. 18934-00-4) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), and (a)(3) (polyvinyl alcohol 
gloves with a thickness of no less than 31.3 mils or silvershield/4H 
sleeves with a thickness of no less than 2.7 mils have satisfied Sec. 
721.63(a)(3)(i) for up to 8 hours.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), and 
(g)(2)(v).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[73 FR 65759, Nov. 5, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 57425, Nov. 6, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10096  Benzene, 1,4-bis (methoxymethyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzene, 1,4-bis 
(methoxymethyl)- (PMN P-03-614; CAS No. 6770-38-3) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[73 FR 65759, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10097  Disubstituted benzenesulfonic acid, alkali metal
salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
disubstituted benzenesulfonic acid, alkali metal salt (PMN P-03-642) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[[Page 532]]

    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[73 FR 65759, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10098  Disubstituted benzoic acid, alkali metal salt 
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
disubstituted benzoic acid, alkali metal salt (PMN P-03-643) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[73 FR 65760, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10099  Dialkyl dimethyl ammonium carbonate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as dialkyl 
dimethyl ammonium carbonate (1:1) (PMN P-03-715) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 5).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65760, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10100  Dialkyl dimethyl ammonium carbonate (2:1) (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as dialkyl 
dimethyl ammonium carbonate (2:1) (PMN P-03-716) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 5).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65760, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10101  Copolymer of alkyl acrylate and ethyleneglycol
dimethacrylate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
copolymer of alkyl acrylate and ethyleneglycol dimethacrylate (PMN P-03-
755) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b), and (c). The 
following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-
approved respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of 10-25 
meet the minimum requirements for

[[Page 533]]

Sec. 721.63(a)(4): Air-purifying, tight-fitting respirator equipped 
with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters (either half- 
or full-face); powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a loose-
fitting hood or helmet and High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) 
filters; powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-fitting 
facepiece (either half- or full-face) and HEPA filters; and supplied-air 
respirator operated in pressure demand or continuous flow mode and 
equipped with a hood or helmet, or tight-fitting facepiece (either half- 
or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65760, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10102  Diphosphoric acid, compd. with piperazine (1:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as diphosphoric acid, 
compd. with piperazine (1:1) (PMN P-04-126; CAS No. 66034-17-1) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (flame retardant).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65760, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10103  Naphtha (Fischer-Tropsch), C4-11-alkane, branched
and linear.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as naphtha (fischer-
tropsch), C4-11-alkane, branched and linear (PMN P-04-235; CAS No. 
849101-58-2) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(b)(1) and (c)(1).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (j), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65760, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10104  Halophosphate mixed metal complex (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
halophosphate mixed metal complex (PMN P-04-254) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),

[[Page 534]]

(b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65761, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10105  Polyfluoroalkylether (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyfluoroalkylether (PMN P-04-417) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(y)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65761, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10106  Silica, [(ethenylsilylidyne)tris(oxy)] - modified.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as silica , 
[(ethenylsilylidyne)tris(oxy)] - modified (PMN P-04-419; CAS No. 649574-
37-8) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65761, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10107  Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, [amino-hydroxy-
[(substituted)azo-sulfo-naphthaleneyl]azo]-hydroxy-[(methoxy-
sulfophenyl)azo], metal salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
naphthalenedisulfonic acid, [amino-hydroxy-[(substituted)azo-sulfo-
naphthaleneyl]azo]-hydroxy-[(methoxy-sulfophenyl)azo], metal salt (PMN 
P-04-495) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f) and (j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[73 FR 65761, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10108  Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, hydrozy-[[[(hydroxyl
-disulfo-naphthaleneyl)azo]-alkyl(C = 1-5)-(sulfoalkoxy)cyclic]
azo]-substituted azo-, metal salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
naphthalenedisulfonic acid, hydrozy-[[[(hydroxyl-disulfo-

[[Page 535]]

naphthaleneyl)azo]-alkyl(C = 1-5)-(sulfoalkoxy)cyclic]azo]-substituted 
azo-, metal salt (PMN P-04-498) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f) and (j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[73 FR 65761, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10109  Hexanoic acid, 2-ethyl-, mixed triesters with benzoic
acid and trimethylolpropane.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as hexanoic acid, 2-
ethyl-, mixed triesters with benzoic acid and trimethylolpropane (PMN P-
04-508; CAS No. 610787-76-3) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(b)(1) and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Record keeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65761, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10110  Hexanoic acid, 2-ethyl-, mixed diesters with benzoic
acid and neopentlyl glycol.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as hexanoic acid, 2-
ethyl-, mixed diesters with benzoic acid and neopentlyl glycol (PMN P-
04-509; CAS No. 610787-77-4) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(b)(1) and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65762, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10111  Hexanoic acid, 2-ethyl-, mixed diesters with benzoic
acid and diethylene glycol.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as hexanoic acid, 2-
ethyl-, mixed diesters with benzoic acid and diethylene glycol (PMN P-
04-510; CAS No. 610787-78-5) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(b)(1) and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 536]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65762, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10112  Ethanone, 2-chloro-1-(1-chlorocyclopropyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as ethanone, 2-chloro-
1-(1-chlorocyclopropyl)- (PMN P-04-530; CAS No. 120983-72-4) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65762, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10113  Thioether epoxy (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
thioether epoxy (PMN P-04-547) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[73 FR 65762, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10114  Polyhydroxyaminoether salts (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
polyhydroxyaminoether salts (PMNs P-04-578, P-04-579, P-04-580, P-04-
581, P-04-582, and-P-04-583) are subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of those substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65762, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10115  1-Hexadecanaminium, N,N-dibutyl-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-,
bromide (1:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-hexadecanaminium, 
N,N-dibutyl-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-, bromide (1:1) (PMN P-04-625; CAS No. 
160653-08-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

[[Page 537]]

    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65762, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10116  Blocked polymeric isocyanate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as blocked 
polymeric isocyanate (PMN P-04-758) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[73 FR 65763, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10117  Heteromonocyclo-beta-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)
-1-propanol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
heteromonocyclo-beta-(2,4-dichlorophenyl) -1-propanol (PMN P-04-776) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65763, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10118  Substituted aryl acetonitrile (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted aryl acetonitrile (PMN P-05-35) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65763, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10119  Siloxane modified silica nanoparticles (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 538]]

chemical substance identified generically as siloxane modified silica 
nanoparticles (PMN P-05-673) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6)(ii), (b) 
(concentration set at 1 percent), and (c). The following National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-approved 
respirators with an APF of 10-25 meet the minimum requirements for Sec. 
721.63(a)(4): Air-purifying, tight-fitting respirator equipped with N100 
(if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters (either half- or full-
face); powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a loose-fitting 
hood or helmet and High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters; 
powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-fitting facepiece 
(either half- or full-face) and HEPA filters; supplied-air respirator 
operated in pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a 
hood or helmet, or tight-fitting facepiece (either half- or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (j), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[73 FR 65763, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10120  Siloxane modified alumina nanoparticles (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as siloxane 
modified alumina nanoparticles (PMN P-05-687) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6)(ii), (b) 
(concentration set at 1 percent), and (c). The following National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-approved 
respirators with an APF of 10-25 meet the minimum requirements for Sec. 
721.63(a)(4): Air-purifying, tight-fitting respirator equipped with N100 
(if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters (either half- or full-
face); powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a loose-fitting 
hood or helmet and High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters; 
powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-fitting facepiece 
(either half- or full-face) and HEPA filters; supplied-air respirator 
operated in pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a 
hood or helmet, or tight-fitting facepiece (either half- or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (j), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.125 (a), 
(b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[73 FR 65763, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10121  Poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)], .alpha.-methyl-.
omega.-(4-nonylphenoxy)-, branched.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-
ethanediyl)], .alpha.-methyl-.omega.-(4-nonylphenoxy)-, branched (PMN P-
05-766; CAS No. 858944-25-9) is subject to

[[Page 539]]

reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65764, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10122  2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 1,1'-[2-ethyl-2-[[(2-methyl
-1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)oxy]methyl]- 1,3-propanediyl] ester, polymer with
1,3-butadiene, ethenylbenzene and 2-hydroxyethyl 2-methyl-2-propenoate
          .

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenoic acid, 2-
methyl-, 1,1'-[2-ethyl-2-[[(2-methyl-1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)oxy]methyl]- 
1,3-propanediyl] ester, polymer with 1,3-butadiene, ethenylbenzene and 
2-hydroxyethyl 2-methyl-2-propenoate (PMN P-06-151; CAS No. 849925-18-4) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (additive in rubber, i.e. as reinforcing 
agent; additive in plastics, i.e. as polymeric plasticizer; and additive 
in polyurethane, i.e. to improve low temperature flexibility).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65764, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10123  [1,2,4-Triazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidin-2-amine, 
5,7-dimethoxy-].

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as [1,2,4-triazolo[1,5-
a]pyrimidin-2-amine, 5,7-dimethoxy-] (PMN P-06-554; CAS No. 13223-43-3) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 5).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65764, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10124  Brominated polyaromatic compound (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
brominated polyaromatic compound (PMN P-06-617) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Impervious gloves: Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b), and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).

[[Page 540]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65764, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10125  Alkenedioic acid, dialkyl ester, reaction products
with polyaminocarbomonocycle and alkenoic acid alkyl ester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
alkenedioic acid, dialkyl ester, reaction products with 
polyaminocarbomonocycle and alkenoic acid alkyl ester (PMNs P-06-665, P-
06-666, P-06-667, P-06-668, P-06-669, and P-06-670) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65764, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10126  Alkyl amino substituted triazine amino substituted
benezenesulfonic acid reaction product with naphthalenesulfonato
azo substituted phenyl azo substituted benzenesulfonic acid copper
compound (generic).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkyl 
amino substituted triazine amino substituted benezenesulfonic acid 
reaction product with naphthalenesulfonato azo substituted phenyl azo 
substituted benzenesulfonic acid copper compound (PMN P-06-689) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65764, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10127  Alkenyl dimethyl betaine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkenyl 
dimethyl betaine (PMN P-06-693) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[[Page 541]]

    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[73 FR 65765, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10128  Modified imidazole (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as modified 
imidazole (PMN P-06-752) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65765, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10129  Alkylamine ethoxylated (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkylamine ethoxylated (PMN P-07-24) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (emulsifier for oilfield application).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65765, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10130  Quino[2,3-b]acridine-7,14-dione, 5,12-dihydro-ar-
[4-[[2-(sulfooxy)ethyl]substituted]phenyl]-, monosodium salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
quino[2,3-b]acridine-7,14-dione, 5,12-dihydro-ar-[4-[[2-
(sulfooxy)ethyl]substituted]phenyl]-, monosodium salt (PMN P-07-140) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[73 FR 65765, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10131  Isononanamide, N-(2-ethylhexyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as isononanamide, N-(2-
ethylhexyl)- (PMN P-07-205: CAS No. 93820-33-8) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (defoamer for cement additives in oilfield 
applications).
    (ii) [Reserved]

[[Page 542]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[73 FR 65765, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10132  Phosphoramidic acid, carbomonocyclic-, diphenylester
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
phosphoramidic acid, carbomonocyclic-, diphenylester (PMN P-07-269) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (j) and (s) (100,000 kilograms).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[73 FR 65765, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10133  2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl, 2-hydroxyethyl ester, 
homopolymer.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenoic acid, 2-
methyl, 2-hydroxyethyl ester, homopolymer (PMN P-07-401; CAS No. 25249-
16-5) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6), (b), and (c). Respirators must provide a 
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned 
protection factor (APF) of at least 1,000. A NIOSH-certified supplied-
air respirator operated in pressure demand or other positive pressure 
mode and equipped with a tight-fitting full facepiece meets the minimum 
requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vii), and (g)(2)(iv).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[73 FR 65766, Nov. 5, 2008]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10134  Formaldehyde, polymer with dialkylphenylamine,
dialkylphenol and trimethylhexanediamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
formaldehyde, polymer with dialkylphenylamine, dialkylphenol and 
trimethylhexanediamine (PMN P-05-1) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]

[[Page 543]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 29994, June 24, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10135  Phosphinic acid, P,P-diethyl-, zinc salt (2:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phosphinic acid, 
P,P-diethyl-, zinc salt (2:1) (PMN P-05-11; CAS No. 284685-45-6) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 12).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 29994, June 24, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10136  2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-hydroxyethyl ester,
reaction products with hexakis(alkoxyalkyl)melamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 2-
propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-hydroxyethyl ester, reaction products with 
hexakis(alkoxyalkyl)melamine (PMN P-05-177) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 29994, June 24, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10137  Halogenated phenoxy aromatic (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
halogenated phenoxy aromatic (PMN P-05-329) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 29995, June 24, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10138  3-Isoxazolecarboxylic acid, 4,5-dihydro-5,5-diphenyl-,
ethyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 3-
isoxazolecarboxylic acid, 4,5-dihydro-5,5-diphenyl-, ethyl ester (PMN P-
05-336; CAS No. 163520-33-0) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.

[[Page 544]]

    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 29995, June 24, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10139  Ethanone, 1-(1-chlorocyclopropyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as ethanone, 1-(1-
chlorocyclopropyl)- (PMN P-05-776; CAS No. 63141-09-3) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 500).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 29995, June 24, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10140  Phosphoric acid, tin (2 + ) salt (2:3).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phosphoric acid, tin 
(2 + ) salt (2:3) (PMN P-06-33, CAS No. 15578-32-2) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(b)(1) and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 29995, June 24, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10141  Oils, ginger, zingiber purpureum.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as oils, ginger, 
zingiber purpureum (PMN P-06-163; CAS No. 864662-46-4) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b), and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 29995, June 24, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10142  Oxabicycloalkane carboxylic acid alkanediyl 
ester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 545]]

chemical substance identified generically as oxabicycloalkane carboxylic 
acid alkanediyl ester (PMN P-06-199) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 29995, June 24, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10143  Amines, bis (C11-14-branched and linear alkyl).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as amines, bis (C11-14-
branched and linear alkyl) (PMN P-06-733; CAS No. 900169-60-0) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 29995, June 24, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10144  Modified thiocarbamate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as modified 
thiocarbamate (PMN P-06-805) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 29996, June 24, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10145  Modified reaction products of alkyl alcohol,
halogenated alkane, substituted epoxide, and amino compound (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as modified 
reaction products of alkyl alcohol, halogenated alkane, substituted 
epoxide, and amino compound (PMN P-06-816) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (analysis and reporting and limitations of 
maximum impurity levels of certain fluorinated impurities) and (q).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),

[[Page 546]]

(b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[74 FR 29996, June 24, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10146  Partially fluorinated condensation polymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
partially fluorinated condensation polymer (PMN P-07-87) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (analysis and reporting and limitations of 
maximum impurity levels of certain fluorinated impurities), (l) (maximum 
percentage of the PMN substance in a non-industrial product or 
distributed for use as a non-industrial product), (o) (use in a consumer 
product that could be spray applied), and (q).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[74 FR 29996, June 24, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10147  Acrylate derivative of alkoxysilylalkane ester
and mixed metal oxides (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as acrylate 
derivative of alkoxysilylalkane ester and mixed metal oxides (PMN P-07-
198) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (j), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[74 FR 29996, June 24, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10148  Acryloxy alkanoic alkane derivative with mixed
metal oxides (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as acryloxy 
alkanoic alkane derivative with mixed metal oxides (PMN P-07-330) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (j), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to

[[Page 547]]

manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[74 FR 29996, June 24, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10149  Carbon black, (3-methylphenyl)-modified, substituted 
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as carbon 
black, (3-methylphenyl)-modified, substituted (PMN P-07-522) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (j), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[74 FR 29997, June 24, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10150  Carbon black, (4-methylphenyl)-modified, substituted
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as carbon 
black, (4-methylphenyl)-modified, substituted (PMN P-07-523) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (j), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[74 FR 29997, June 24, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10151  Modified styrene, divinylbenzene polymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as modified 
styrene, divinylbenzene polymer (PMN P-07-642) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (j), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of these substances.

[[Page 548]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[74 FR 29997, June 24, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10152  Oxirane, substituted silylmethyl-, hydrolysis products
with alkanol zirconium(4 + ) salt and silica, acetates (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as oxirane, 
substituted silylmethyl-, hydrolysis products with alkanol zirconium(4 + 
) salt and silica, acetates (PMN P-07-674) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (a), (j), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[74 FR 29997, June 24, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10153  Modified methyl methacrylate, 2-hydroxyethyl
methacrylate polymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as modified 
methyl methacrylate, 2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate polymer (PMN P-08-6) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (j), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[74 FR 29997, June 24, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10154  Quaternary ammonium compounds, dicoco alkyldimethyl,
chlorides, reaction products with silica.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as quaternary ammonium 
compounds, dicoco alkyldimethyl, chlorides, reaction products with 
silica (PMN P-08-157; CAS No. 956147-76-5) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (j), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to

[[Page 549]]

manufacturers, importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[74 FR 29998, June 24, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10155  Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting--(1) The chemical substance identified generically as multi-
walled carbon nanotubes (PMN P-08-177) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to 
quantities of the chemical substance after it has been completely 
reacted (cured); incorporated or embedded into a polymer matrix that 
itself has been reacted (cured); or embedded in a permanent solid 
polymer form that is not intended to undergo further processing except 
for mechanical processing.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5) (National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-approved air-
purifying, tightfitting full-face respirator equipped with N100 
filters), (a)(6)(i), and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[75 FR 56888, Sept. 17, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10156  Single-walled carbon nanotubes (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting--(1) The chemical substance identified generically as single-
walled carbon nanotubes (PMN P-08-328) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to 
quantities of the chemical substance after it has been completely 
reacted (cured); incorporated or embedded into a polymer matrix that 
itself has been reacted (cured); or embedded in a permanent solid 
polymer form that is not intended to undergo further processing except 
for mechanical processing.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5) (National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-approved air-
purifying, tightfitting full-face respirator equipped with N100 
filters), (a)(6)(i), and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[75 FR 56889, Sept. 17, 2010]

[[Page 550]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10157  Benzeneethanol,halo-,halocycloalkyl-,hydrazinealkyl-
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
benzeneethanol,halo-,halocycloalkyl-,hydrazinealkyl (PMN P-05-775) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 
1.0%), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0%), (f), 
(g)(1)(i) (eye irritation), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(viii) 
(sensitization), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), 
(g)(3)(ii), (g)(4) (resulting in receiving stream levels exceeding 0.1 
parts per billion (ppb)), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 0.1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (k) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 47886, Sept. 18, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10158  2-Pentanone, 3,5-dichloro-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-pentanone, 3,5-
dichloro- (PMN P-06-16; CAS No. 58371-98-5) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6), 
(b) (concentration set at 1.0%), and (c). Respirators must provide a 
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned 
protection factor (APF) of at least 50. The following NIOSH-approved 
respirator with an APF of 50 meets the minimum requirements for Sec. 
721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-approved air-purifying, tight-fitting full facepiece 
respirator equipped with combination organic gas/vapor P100 cartridges 
(organic vapor, acid gas, or substance-specific).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0%), (f), 
(g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(viii), 
(g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), 
(g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4) (resulting in receiving stream levels 
exceeding 0.1 parts per billion (ppb)), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 0.1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (k) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 47886, Sept. 18, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10159  1-Docosanamine, N,N-dimethyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-docosanamine, N,N-
dimethyl- (PMN P-07-587; CAS No. 21542-96-1) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),

[[Page 551]]

(b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 47887, Sept. 18, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10160  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-[(13Z)-1-oxo-13-
docosen-1-yl]-.omega.-[[(13Z)-1-oxo-13-docosen-1-yl]oxy]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as poly(oxy-1,2-
ethanediyl), .alpha.-[(13Z)-1-oxo-13-docosen-1-yl]-.omega.-[[(13Z)-1-
oxo-13-docosen-1-yl]oxy]- (PMN P-07-629; CAS No. 56565-72-1) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[74 FR 47887, Sept. 18, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10161  Substituted silyl methacrylate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted silyl methacrylate (PMN P-08-3) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 47887, Sept. 18, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10162  1,3 Dioxolane-4-butanol, 2-ethenyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,3 dioxolane-4-
butanol, 2-ethenyl- (PMN P-08-24; CAS No. 2421-08-1) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[74 FR 47887, Sept. 18, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10163  Chloro fluoro alkane (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as chloro 
fluoro alkane (PMN P-08-33) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 552]]

    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f) and (s) (50,000 kilograms).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(b)(1) and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 47887, Sept. 18, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10164  Benzenecarboximidamide, N-hydroxy-4-nitro-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 
benzenecarboximidamide, N-hydroxy-4-nitro- (PMN P-08-36; CAS No. 1613-
86-1) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 47888, Sept. 18, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10165  Carbonotrithioic acid, bis(phenylmethyl) ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as carbonotrithioic 
acid, bis(phenylmethyl) ester (PMN P-08-138; CAS No.26504-29-0) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(b)(1) and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 47888, Sept. 18, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10166  1,3-Cyclohexanedione, 2-[2-chloro-4-(methylsulfonyl)
-3-[(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)methyl]benzoyl]-, ion(1-), potassium salt
(1:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,3-
cyclohexanedione, 2-[2-chloro-4-(methylsulfonyl)-3-[(2,2,2-
trifluoroethoxy)methyl]benzoyl]-, ion(1-), potassium salt (1:1) (PMN P-
08-180; CAS No. 1121649-70-4) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N= 0.1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 47888, Sept. 18, 2009]

[[Page 553]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10167  Tetrafluoro nitrotoluene (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
tetrafluoro nitrotoluene (PMN P-08-212) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 47888, Sept. 18, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10168  Cesium tungsten oxide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as cesium tungsten 
oxide (PMN P-08-275; CAS No. 52350-17-1) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(2), (w)(2), and (x)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[74 FR 47888, Sept. 18, 2009]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10169  Cyclopentane, methoxy-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as cyclopentane, 
methoxy- (PMN P-03-141; CAS No. 5614-37-9) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[75 FR 4993, Feb. 1, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10170  Polyoxyethylene polyalkylarylphenylether sulfate
ammonium salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyoxyethylene polyalkylarylphenylether sulfate ammonium salt (PMN P-
03-197) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.

[[Page 554]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[75 FR 4993, Feb. 1, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10171  1H-benz(e)indolium, 1,1,2,3-tetramethyl-, 
4-methylbenzenesulfonic acid (1:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1H-benz(e)indolium, 
1,1,2,3-tetramethyl-, 4-methylbenzenesulfonic acid (1:1) (PMN P-03-285; 
CAS No. 141914-99-0) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5), (b) (concentration set at 1 percent), and (c). 
Respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety 
and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10. The 
following NIOSH-approved respirators with an APF of 10-25 meet the 
minimum requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): Air-purifying, tight-
fitting respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or 
P100 filters (either half- or full-face); powered air-purifying 
respirator equipped with a loose-fitting hood or helmet and High 
Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters; powered air-purifying 
respirator equipped with a tight-fitting facepiece (either half- or 
full-face) and HEPA filters; supplied-air respirator operated in 
pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or 
helmet, or tight-fitting facepiece (either half- or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(s) (11,000 kilograms).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 4994, Feb. 1, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10172  Alkylamide derivative (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkylamide derivative (PMN P-03-633) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 4994, Feb. 1, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10173  Silanamine,1,1,1-triethoxy-N,N-diethyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as silanamine,1,1,1-
triethoxy-N,N-diethyl- (PMN P-03-793; CAS No. 35077-00-0) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.

[[Page 555]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 4994, Feb. 1, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10174  1-Propanaminium, 3-amino-N-(carboxymethyl)
-N,N-dimethyl-, N-peanut-oil acyl derivs., inner salts.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-Propanaminium, 3-
amino-N-(carboxymethyl)-N,N-dimethyl-, N-peanut-oil acyl derivs., inner 
salts (PMN P-04-139; CAS No. 691401-28-2) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[75 FR 4994, Feb. 1, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10175  1-Propanaminium, N-(3-aminopropyl)-2-hydroxy-N,N-
dimethyl-3-sulfo-, N-(C12-18 and C18-unsatd. acyl) derivs., 
inner salts.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-Propanaminium, N-
(3-aminopropyl)-2-hydroxy-N,N-dimethyl-3-sulfo-, N-(C12-18 and C18-
unsatd. acyl) derivs., inner salts (PMN P-04-141; CAS No. 691400-36-9) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 6).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 4994, Feb. 1, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10176  Amides, peanut-oil, N-[3-(dimethylamino)propyl].

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as amides, peanut-oil, 
N-[3-(dimethylamino)propyl] (PMN P-04-144; CAS No. 691400-76-7) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 4995, Feb. 1, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10177  Phosphoric acid, yttrium(3 + ) salt (1:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phosphoric acid, 
yttrium(3 + ) salt (1:1) (PMN P-04-153; CAS No. 13990-54-0) is subject 
to reporting under this section

[[Page 556]]

for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(b)(4) and (c)(4) (N = 6).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 4995, Feb. 1, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10178  Distillates (Fischer-Tropsch), hydroisomerized
middle, C10-13-branched alkane fraction.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as distillates 
(Fischer-Tropsch), hydroisomerized middle, C10-13-branched alkane 
fraction (PMN P-04-319; CAS No. 642928-30-1) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), (b) (concentration set 
at 0.1 percent), and (c). Respirators must provide a National Institute 
for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor 
(APF) of at least 100. The following NIOSH-approved respirator meets the 
minimum requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): Supplied-air respirator 
operated in pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a 
tight-fitting full facepiece.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(b)(1) and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 4995, Feb. 1, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10179  Copolymers of phenol and aromatic hydocarbon (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
copolymers of phenol and aromatic hydocarbon (PMNs P-04-346 and P-04-
347) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (no manufacture or import of the PMN 
substances unless the average molecular weight is greater than 500 
daltons). Representative samples of the PMN substances must be analyzed 
and determined to comply with these requirements both at the time of 
initial commencement and annually thereafter.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 4995, Feb. 1, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10180  Trifunctional acrylic ester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
trifunctional acrylic ester (PMN P-04-692) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant

[[Page 557]]

new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirement as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (no manufacture or import of the PMN 
substance unless the mean number of moles of the ethoxy group is greater 
than or equal to 8). Representative samples of the PMN substance must be 
analyzed and determined to comply with these requirements both at the 
time of initial commencement and annually thereafter.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 4995, Feb. 1, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10181  Halide salt of an alkylamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as halide 
salt of an alkylamine (PMN P-07-453) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[75 FR 4995, Feb. 1, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10182  1-Propene, 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-propene, 2,3,3,3-
tetrafluoro- (PMN P-07-601, SNUN S-14-11, and SNUN S-15-5; CAS No. 754-
12-1) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. A significant 
new use is:
    (A) Use other than as a refrigerant: In motor vehicle air 
conditioning systems in new passenger cars and vehicles (i.e., as 
defined in 40 CFR 82.32(c) and (d)), in stationary and transport 
refrigeration, or in stationary air conditioning.
    (B) Section 721.80(m) (commercial use other than: In passenger cars 
and vehicles in which the original charging of motor vehicle air 
conditioning systems with the PMN substance was done by the motor 
vehicle original equipment manufacturer (OEM), in stationary and 
transport refrigeration, or in stationary air conditioning).
    (C) Section 721.80(o) (use in consumer products other than products 
used to recharge the motor vehicle air conditioning systems in passenger 
cars and vehicles in which the original charging of motor vehicle air 
conditioning systems with the PMN substance was done by the motor 
vehicle OEM).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.

[[Page 558]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 65994, Oct. 27, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 65572, Nov. 1, 2013; 80 
FR 37166, June 30, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10183  Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as multi-
walled carbon nanotubes (PMN P-08-199) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to 
quantities of the chemical substance after it has been completely 
reacted (cured), incorporated or embedded into a polymer matrix that 
itself has been reacted (cured), or embedded in a permanent solid 
polymer form that is not intended to undergo further processing except 
for mechanical processing.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(4), (a)(5) (National Institute 
for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-approved full-face 
respirators with N100 cartridges), (a)(6)(i), and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (additive/filler for polymer composites 
and support media for industrial catalysts).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this chemical substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 26192, May 6, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10184  Aliphatic triamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
aliphatic triamine (PMN P-02-996) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(y)(1).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 35986, June 24, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10185  1,2-Propanediol, 3-(diethylamino)-, polymers with 5-isocyanato-1- (isocyanatomethyl)-1,3,3-trimethylcyclohexane, propylene glycol and reduced 
          Me esters of reduced polymd. oxidized tetrafluoroethylene, 2-
          ethyl-1-hexanol-blocked, acetates (salts).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,2-propanediol, 3-
(diethylamino)-, polymers with 5-isocyanato-1- (isocyanatomethyl)-1,3,3-
trimethylcyclohexane, propylene glycol and reduced Me esters of reduced 
polymd. oxidized tetrafluoroethylene, 2-ethyl-1-hexanol-blocked, 
acetates (salts) (PMN P-03-106; CAS No. 328389-90-8) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(y)(l).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),

[[Page 559]]

(b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 35986, June 24, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10186  Ethylhexyl oxetane (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
ethylhexyl oxetane (PMN P-04-132) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities 
of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted (cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3)(i), (b) (concentration set 
at 1.0 percent), and (c). Polyvinyl Alcohol gloves with a thickness of 
no less than 31.3 mils or Silvershield/4H sleeves with a thickness of no 
less than 2.7 mils have been shown to satisfy the requirements of Sec. 
721.63(a)(3)(i) for up to 8 hours.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), and 
(g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[75 FR 35986, June 24, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10187  4-Morpholinepropanamine, N-(1,3-dimethylbutylidene)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 4-
morpholinepropanamine, N-(1,3-dimethylbutylidene)- (PMN P-05-186, 
Chemical A; CAS No. 1003863-30-6) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10). However, when this chemical 
substance is released in combination with any of the substances in Sec. 
721.10188, Sec. 721.10189, or Sec. 721.10190, then the value of N 
shall instead be adjusted according to the following formula:

    [(N1 x Release1) + (N2 x Release2) + (N3 x Release3) + (N4 x 
Release4)] / (Release1 + Release2 + Release3 + Release4) = Adjusted N

    Where the ``N'' variables are the N values for each of the four 
substances as specified in this section and Sec. 721.10188, Sec. 
721.10189, Sec. 721.10190 and the ``Release'' variables are the number 
of kilograms released of the respective four substances (in units of kg/
site/day) per Sec. 721.91(a).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 35986, June 24, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10188  Fatty acids, tall-oil, reaction products with
4-methyl-2-pentanone and aliphatic polyamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fatty 
acids, tall-oil, reaction products with 4-methyl-2-pentanone and 
aliphatic polyamine (PMN P-05-186, Chemical B) is subject to reporting

[[Page 560]]

under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10). However, when this chemical 
substance is released in combination with any of the substances in Sec. 
721.10187, Sec. 721.10189, or Sec. 721.10190, then the value of N 
shall instead be adjusted according to the following formula:

    [(N1 x Release1) + (N2 x Release2) + (N3 x Release3) + (N4 x 
Release4)] / (Release1 + Release2 + Release3 + Release4) = Adjusted N

    Where the ``N'' variables are the N values for each of the four 
substances as specified in this section and Sec. 721.10187, Sec. 
721.10189, Sec. 721.10190 and the ``Release'' variables are the number 
of kilograms released of the respective four substances (in units of kg/
site/day) per Sec. 721.91(a).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 35987, June 24, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10189  Fatty acids, tall-oil, reaction products with 
(butoxymethyl) oxirane formaldehyde-phenol polymer glycidyl ether,
morpholinepropanamine, propylene glycol diamine and aliphatic
polyamine, N-(1,3 -
          
          dimethylbutylidene) derivs (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fatty 
acids, tall-oil, reaction products with (butoxymethyl) oxirane 
formaldehyde-phenol polymer glycidyl ether, morpholinepropanamine, 
propylene glycol diamine and aliphatic polyamine, N-(1,3 -
dimethylbutylidene) derivs (PMN P-05-186, Chemical C) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10). However, when this chemical 
substance is released in combination with any of the substances in Sec. 
721.10187, Sec. 721.10188, or Sec. 721.10190, then the value of N 
shall instead be adjusted according to the following formula:

    [(N1 x Release1) + (N2 x Release2) + (N3 x Release3) + (N4 x 
Release4)] / (Release1 + Release2 + Release3 + Release4) = Adjusted N

    Where the ``N'' variables are the N values for each of the four 
substances as specified in this section and Sec. 721.10187, Sec. 
721.10188, Sec. 721.10190 and the ``Release'' variables are the number 
of kilograms released of the respective four substances (in units of kg/
site/day) per Sec. 721.91(a).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 35987, June 24, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10190  Formaldehyde, polymer with aliphatic diamine and
phenol, reaction products with 4-methyl-2-pentanone (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
formaldehyde, polymer with aliphatic diamine and phenol, reaction 
products with 4-methyl-2-pentanone (PMN P-05-186; Chemical D) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10). However, when this chemical 
substance is released in combination with any of the substances in

[[Page 561]]

Sec. 721.10187, Sec. 721.10188, or Sec. 721.10189, then the value of 
N shall instead be adjusted according to the following formula:

    [(N1 x Release1) + (N2 x Release2) + (N3 x Release3) + (N4 x 
Release4)] / (Release1 + Release2 + Release3 + Release4) = Adjusted N

    Where the ``N'' variables are the N values for each of the four 
substances as specified in this section and Sec. 721.10187, Sec. 
721.10188, Sec. 721.10189 and the ``Release'' variables are the number 
of kilograms released of the respective four substances (in units of kg/
site/day) per Sec. 721.91(a).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 35987, June 24, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10191  Amides, coco, N-[3-(dibutylamino)propyl].

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as amides, coco, N-[3-
(dibutylamino)propyl] (PMN P-06-262; CAS No. 851544-20-2) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 35988, June 24, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10192  Amides, coco, N-[3-(dibutylamino)propyl], acrylates.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as amides, coco, N-[3-
(dibutylamino)propyl], acrylates (PMN P-06-263, Chemical A; CAS No. 
851545-09-0) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 35988, June 24, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10193  1-Butanaminium, N-(3-aminopropyl)-N-butyl-N-
(2-carboxyethyl)-, N-coco acyl derivs., inner salts.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-butanaminium, N-
(3-aminopropyl)-N-butyl-N-(2-carboxyethyl)-, N-coco acyl derivs., inner 
salts (PMN P-06-263, Chemical B; CAS No. 851545-17-0) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.

[[Page 562]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 35988, June 24, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10194  Dialkylcocoamidoalkylpropionate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
dialkylcocoamidoalkylpropionate (PMN P-06-264) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 35988, June 24, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10195  Dialkylcornoilamidoalkylamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
dialkylcornoilamidoalkylamine (PMN P-06-265) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 35988, June 24, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10196  Dialkylcornoilamidoacrylate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
dialkylcornoilamidoacrylate (PMN P-06-266, Chemical A) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 35988, June 24, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10197  Dialkycornoilamidoalkylbetaine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
dialkycornoilamidoalkylbetaine (PMN P-06-266, Chemical B) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 563]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 35988, June 24, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10198  Dialkylcornoilamidopropionate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
dialkylcornoilamidopropionate (PMN P-06-267) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[]75 FR 35989, June 24, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10199  Substituted aliphatic amine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted aliphatic amine (PMN P-06-702) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted 
(cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3)(i), (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6), (b) 
(concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). Ansell NEOX style 9-912 
gloves have been shown to satisfy the requirements of Sec. 
721.63(a)(3)(i) for up to 110 minutes. Respirators must provide a 
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned 
protection factor (APF) of at least 50. The following NIOSH-approved 
respirators meet the requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): Air purifying, 
tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with the appropriate 
combination cartridges, cartridges should be tested and approved for the 
gas/vapor substance (i.e., organic vapor, acid gas, or substance-
specific cartridge) and should include a particulate filter (N100 if oil 
aerosols are absent, R100, or P100); powered air-purifying respirator 
equipped with a tight-fitting facepiece (full-face) and the appropriate 
combination cartridges, cartridges should be tested and approved for the 
gas/vapor substance (i.e., organic vapor, acid gas, or substance-
specific cartridges) and should include High Efficiency Particulate Air 
(HEPA) filters; supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or 
continuous flow mode and equipped with a tight-fitting face piece (full-
face). As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a 
manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow the new 
chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the Toxic Substances 
Control Act (TSCA) section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The 
NCEL is 0.14 mg/m\3\ as an 8-hour time-weighted average. Persons who 
wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to the Sec. 721.63 respirator 
requirements may request to do so under Sec. 721.30. Persons whose 
Sec. 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will 
receive NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the 
corresponding section 5(e) consent order.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), 
and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(r).

[[Page 564]]

    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[75 FR 35989, June 24, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10200  Benzenacetonitrile, cyclohexylidene-alkyl substituted
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
benzenacetonitrile, cyclohexylidene-alkyl substituted (PMN P-09-75) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(s) (10,000 kg).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 123).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 35989, June 24, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10201  Cobalt lithium manganese nickel oxide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as cobalt lithium 
manganese nickel oxide (PMN P-04-269; CAS No. 182442-95-1) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do 
not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after it has been 
completely reacted (cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6), (b) 
(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). Respirators must provide a 
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned 
protection factor (APF) of at least 150. The following NIOSH-certified 
respirators meet the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4): Supplied-air 
respirator operated in positive pressure demand or other positive 
pressure mode and equipped with a tight-fitting full facepiece. As an 
alternative to the respirator requirements listed here, a manufacturer, 
importer, or processor may choose to follow the New Chemical Exposure 
Limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the Toxic Substances Control Act 
(TSCA) section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.1 
mg/m\3\ as an 8-hour time-weighted average. Persons who wish to pursue 
NCELs as an alternative to the Sec. 721.63 respirator may request to do 
as under Sec. 721.30. Persons whose Sec. 721.30 requests to use the 
NCELs approach are approved by EPA will receive NCELs provisions 
comparable to those listed in the corresponding section 5(e) consent 
order.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2), (g)(3), 
(g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (k) are

[[Page 565]]

applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this chemical 
substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 48001, Aug. 8, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10202  Benzoic acid, 4-chloro-2- [(substituted)azo]-, 
strontium salt (1:1) (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as benzoic 
acid, 4-chloro-2- [(substituted)azo]-, strontium salt (1:1) (PMN P-08-
701) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[75 FR 57182, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10203  Phosphonium, tetrabutyl-, hydroxide (1:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phosphonium, 
tetrabutyl-, hydroxide (1:1) (PMN P-08-742; CAS No. 14518-69-5) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 57182, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10204  Aryloxyacrylate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
aryloxyacrylate (PMN P-08-754) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 3).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 57182, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10205  Formaldehyde, polymer with 1,3-benzenediol and 
1,1'-methylenebis[isocyanatobenzene].

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as formaldehyde, 
polymer with 1,3-benzenediol and 1,1'-methylenebis[isocyanatobenzene] 
(PMN P-09-4; CAS No. 1067881-45-1) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 566]]

    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 57182, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10206  4-Cyclohexene-1,2-dicarboxylic acid, 1,2-bis
(2-oxiranylmethyl) ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 4-cyclohexene-1,2-
dicarboxylic acid, 1,2-bis(2-oxiranylmethyl) ester (PMN P-09-19; CAS No. 
21544-03-6) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 
0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (c), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (g)(1)(i), 
(g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(v).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), and (h) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 57182, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10207  1,3-Cyclohexanedimethanamine, N1,N3-bis
(2-methylpropylidene)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,3-
cyclohexanedimethanamine, N1,N3-bis(2-methylpropylidene)- (PMN P-09-38; 
CAS No. 173904-11-5) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 57183, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10208  Amines, di-C11-14-isoalkyl, C13-rich.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as amines, di-C11-14-
isoalkyl, C13-rich (PMN P-09-71; CAS No. 1005516-89-1) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 57183, Sept. 20, 2010]

[[Page 567]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10209  Epoxy terminated, hydrolyzed trialkoxysilane
and glycidyl ether of phenol-formaldehyde resin (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as epoxy 
terminated, hydrolyzed trialkoxysilane and glycidyl ether of phenol-
formaldehyde resin (PMN P-09-120) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 57183, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10210  Soybean oil, epoxidized, reaction products with 
diethanolamine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as soybean oil, 
epoxidized, reaction products with diethanolamine (PMN P-09-130; CAS No. 
1002761-12-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 57183, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10211  Octadecanoic acid, reaction products with
diethylenetriamine and urea, acetates.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as octadecanoic acid, 
reaction products with diethylenetriamine and urea, acetates (PMN P-09-
172; CAS No. 84962-05-0) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(s) (10,000 kilograms).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 57183, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10212  1,2-Ethanediol, reaction products with epichlorohydrin.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,2-ethanediol, 
reaction products with epichlorohydrin (PMN P-09-241; CAS No. 705265-31-
2) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(s) (100,000 kilograms).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),

[[Page 568]]

(b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 57183, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10213  Polyether polyester copolymer phosphate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyether polyester copolymer phosphate (PMN P-09-253) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 57183, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10214  Poly(oxyalkylenediyl),.alpha.-substituted 
carbomonocycle-.omega.-substituted carbomonocycle (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
poly(oxyalkylenediyl),.alpha.-substituted carbomonocycle-.omega.-
substituted carbomonocycle (PMN P-09-286) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 57184, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10215  Benzenepropanol, .beta.-methyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzenepropanol, 
.beta.-methyl- (PMN P-09-385; CAS No.7384-80-7) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 57184, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10216  2-Propenoic acid, 3-(5,5,6-trimethylbicyclo[2.2.1]
hept-2-yl)cyclohexyl ester].

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenoic acid, 3-
(5,5,6-trimethylbicyclo[2.2.1]hept-2-yl)cyclohexyl ester (PMN P-09-411; 
CAS No. 903876-45-9) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 569]]

    (i) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (j), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 57184, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10217  Branched and linear alcohols (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as branched 
and linear alcohols (PMN P-09-426) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 57184, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10218  2-Propenoic acid, 2-mehtyl-, C12-15-branched and linear
alkyl esters, telomers with alkyl 2-[[(alkylthio)thioxomethyl]thio]
-2-alkanoate, aminoalkyl methacrylate and alkyl methacrylate, tert-Bu 2-
ethylhexanoperoxoate-initiated (generic).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 2-
propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, C12-15-branched and linear alkyl esters, 
telomers with alkyl 2-[[(alkylthio)thioxomethyl]thio]-2-alkanoate, 
aminoalkyl methacrylate and alkyl methacrylate, tert-Bu 2-
ethylhexanoperoxoate-initiated (PMN P-09-436) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 57184, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10219  Butanamide,N-[substituted phenyl]-[(alkoxynitrophenyl)
diazenyl]-3-oxo- (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
butanamide,N-[substituted phenyl]-(alkoxynitrophenyl)diazenyl]-3-oxo- 
(PMN P-09-451) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.

[[Page 570]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 57184, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10220  Phosphoric acid, polymer with cycloaliphatic 
diglycidyl ether, alkylethers (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
phosphoric acid, polymer with cycloaliphatic diglycidyl ether, 
alkylethers (PMN P-09-478) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 57185, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10221  3-Nonen-1-ol, 1-acetate, (3Z)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 3-nonen-1-ol, 1-
acetate, (3Z)- (PMN P-09-542; CAS No. 13049-88-2) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 9).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section

[75 FR 57185, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10222  Styrenyl surface treated manganese ferrite (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as styrenyl 
surface treated manganese ferrite (PMN P-09-581) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
and (c). Respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational 
Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 
10. The following NIOSH-approved respirators with an APF of 10-25 meet 
the minimum requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): Air-purifying, tight-
fitting respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or 
P100 filters (either half- or full-face); powered air-purifying 
respirator equipped with a loose-fitting hood or helmet and High 
Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters; powered air-purifying 
respirator equipped with a tight-fitting facepiece (either half- or 
full-face) and HEPA filters; supplied-air respirator operated in 
pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or 
helmet, or tight-fitting facepiece (either half- or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (raw material intermediate used in the 
manufacture of polymerized pigments).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.

[[Page 571]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 57185, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10223  Styrenyl surface treated manganese ferrite with 
acrylic ester polymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as styrenyl 
surface treated manganese ferrite with acrylic ester polymer (PMN P-09-
582) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
and (c). Respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational 
Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 
10. The following NIOSH-approved respirators with an APF of 10-25 meet 
the minimum requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): Air-purifying, tight-
fitting respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or 
P100 filters (either half- or full-face); powered air-purifying 
respirator equipped with a loose-fitting hood or helmet and High 
Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters; powered air-purifying 
respirator equipped with a tight-fitting facepiece (either half- or 
full-face) and HEPA filters; supplied-air respirator operated in 
pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or 
helmet, or tight-fitting facepiece (either half- or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (polymerized pigment used in the 
manufacture of electronic inks).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 57185, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10224  Diglycidylaniline (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
diglycidylaniline (PMN P-10-9) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[75 FR 57186, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10225  Quino[2,3-b] acridine-7,14-dione, 2,9-dichloro-
5,12-dihydro [4-[[2-(sulfooxy) ethyl] substituted] phenyl]-,
sodium salt (1:1) (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
quino[2,3-b] acridine-7,14-dione, 2,9-dichloro-5,12-dihydro [4-[[2-
(sulfooxy) ethyl] substituted] phenyl]-, sodium salt (1:1) (PMN P-10-14) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 
1.0 percent), and (c).

[[Page 572]]

    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (j), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[75 FR 57186, Sept. 20, 2010]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10226  Di-n-pentyl phthalate (DnPP).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as di-n-pentyl 
phthalate (DnPP) (1,2-benzenedicarboxylic acid, 1,2-dipentyl ester) (CAS 
No. 131-18-0) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Any use other than use as a chemical 
standard for analytical experiments.
    (b) [Reserved]

[79 FR 77911, Dec. 29, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10227  Alkanes, C[bdi1][bdi2]<INF>-</INF>[bdi1][bdi3],
chloro (CAS No. 71011-12-6).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as alkanes, 
C<INF>12-13,</INF> chloro (CAS No. 71011-12-6) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is: Any use.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Persons who must report. Section 721.5 applies to this section 
except for Sec. 721.5(a)(2). A person who intends to manufacture for 
commercial purposes a substance identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this 
section and intends to distribute the substance in commerce must submit 
a significant new use notice.
    (2) [Reserved]

[79 FR 77911, Dec. 29, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10229  Ethylene glycol ethers.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified in Table 1 of this 
paragraph are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in Table 1 of this paragraph.

                  Table 1--Ethylene Glycol Ethers and Significant New Uses Subject to Reporting
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                       Chemical
                                                                      Abstracts
             Chemical name                Chemical Abstracts index     Service        Significant new use(s)
                                                    name               Registry
                                                                     No. (CASRN)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Monoethylene glycol dimethyl ether or    Ethane, 1,2,-dimethoxy-...     110-71-4  Any use in a consumer product.
 monoglyme.
Diethylene glycol dimethyl ether or      Ethane, 1,1'-oxybis[2-         111-96-6  Any use in a consumer product.
 diglyme.                                 methoxy-.
Diethylene glycol diethyl ether or       Ethane, 1,1'-oxybis[2-         112-36-7  Any use in a consumer product
 ethyldiglyme.                            ethoxy-.                                 except as a component of
                                                                                   inks, coatings and adhesives,
                                                                                   and as a component of paint/
                                                                                   graffiti removers.
Triethylene glycol dimethyl ether or     2,5,8,11-Tetraoxadodecane.     112-49-2  Any use in a consumer product,
 triglyme.                                                                         except as a solvent in
                                                                                   consumer adhesives, in brake
                                                                                   fluid, as a component of
                                                                                   consumer paint/graffiti
                                                                                   removers, and in consumer
                                                                                   paints.
Diethylene glycol dibutyl ether or       Butane, 1,1'-[oxybis(2,1-      112-73-2  Any use in a consumer product
 butyldiglyme.                            ethanediyloxy)]bis-.                     except as a solvent in
                                                                                   consumer inks, coatings and
                                                                                   adhesives, and as a component
                                                                                   in soldering compounds.
Ethylene glycol diethyl ether or         Ethane, 1,2-diethoxy......     629-14-1  Any use in a consumer product.
 ethylglyme.

[[Page 573]]

 
Triethylene glycol dibutyl ether or      5,8,11,14-                   63512-36-7  Any use.
 butyltriglyme.                           Tetraoxaoctadecane.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (2) [Reserved]
    (b) [Reserved]

[79 FR 74646, Dec. 16, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10230  Rutile, tin zinc, calcium doped.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as rutile, tin zinc, 
calcium-doped (PMN P-06-36; CAS No. 389623-01-2) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance that have been incorporated into a 
polymer, glass, dispersion, cementitious matrix, or a similar 
incorporation.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and 
(c). The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health 
(NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) 
of 10 meet the minimum requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose- fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters;
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting face-piece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters; or
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting face-piece (either half-face or full-face).
    (1) As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed in 
paragraph (a)(2)(i), a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose 
to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in 
the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 2.4 
mg/m\3\ as an 8-hour time-weighted-average for this substance (PMN P-06-
36; CAS No. 389623-01-2) and the substance referred to in 40 CFR 
721.10231 (PMN P-06-37; CAS No. 389623-07-8) combined. Persons who wish 
to pursue NCELs as an alternative to the Sec. 721.63 respirator 
requirements may request to do so under Sec. 721.30. Persons whose 
Sec. 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will 
receive NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the 
corresponding section 5(e) consent order.
    (2) [Reserved]
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv) (use respiratory protection or 
maintain workplace airborne concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-
weighted average of 2.4 mg/m\3\), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (manufacture of the substance with a 
particle size less than 100 nanometers, where d10 particle size presents 
the particle size, as determined by laser light scattering, at which 10 
percent by weight of the substance measured is smaller).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 574]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 42996, July 23, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10231  Rutile, tin zinc, sodium-doped.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as rutile, tin zinc, 
sodium-doped (PMN P-06-37; CAS No. 389623-07-8) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance that have been incorporated into a 
polymer, glass, dispersion, cementitious matrix, or a similar 
incorporation.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and 
(c). The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health 
(NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) 
of 10 meet the minimum requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters;
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting face-piece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters; or
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting face-piece (either half-face or full-face).
    (1) As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed in 
paragraph (a)(2)(i), a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose 
to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in 
the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 2.4 
mg/m\3\ as an 8-hour time-weighted-average for this substance (PMN P-06-
37; CAS No. 389623-07-8) and the substance referred to in 40 CFR 
721.10230 (PMN P-06-36; CAS No. 389623-01-2) combined. Persons who wish 
to pursue NCELs as an alternative to the Sec. 721.63 respirator 
requirements may request to do so under Sec. 721.30. Persons whose 
Sec. 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will 
receive NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the 
corresponding section 5(e) consent order.
    (2) [Reserved]
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv) (use respiratory protection or 
maintain workplace airborne concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-
weighted average of 2.4 mg/m\3\), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (manufacture of the substance with a 
particle size less than 100 nanometers, where d10 particle size presents 
the particle size, as determined by laser light scattering, at which 10 
percent by weight of the substance measured is smaller).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 42996, July 23, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10232  N-arylamino-phenol-formaldehyde condensate 
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 575]]

chemical substance identified generically as n-arylamino-phenol-
formaldehyde condensate (PMN P-08-694) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61581, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10233  Linear alkyl epoxide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as linear 
alkyl epoxide (PMN P-08-704) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61581, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10234  Hydroxy-chloro-cyclopropyl-heteromonocyclic carboxylic 
acid (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as hydroxy-
chloro-cyclopropyl-heteromonocyclic carboxylic acid (PMN P-09-61) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 6).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61581, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10235  Phenol, 2-ethoxy-4-(ethoxymethyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phenol, 2-ethoxy-4-
(ethoxymethyl)- (PMN P-09-72; CAS No. 71119-07-8) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61581, Oct. 5, 2011]

[[Page 576]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10236  1-Propanamine, 3-[2-(2-methoxyethoxy)ethoxy]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-propanamine, 3-[2-
(2-methoxyethoxy)ethoxy]- (PMN P-09-139; CAS No. 91933-40-3) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) and (o).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[76 FR 61581, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10237  Formaldehyde, polymers with acetone-phenol reaction
products and phenol, sodium salts.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as formaldehyde, 
polymers with acetone-phenol reaction products and phenol, sodium salts 
(PMN P-09-146; CAS No. 1065544-88-8) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities 
of the PMN substance that have been completely reacted (cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) including:
    (A) Manufacture or import of the PMN substance only where the 
maximum unbound formaldehyde residual levels and typical polymer weight 
to weight composition ratios are as specified in the TSCA section 5(e) 
consent order.
    (B) Upon start-up of manufacture of the PMN at any new facility, 
conduct the American Society for Testing and Materials International 
(ASTM) E1333-10 test or its equivalent on a representative sample of the 
finished cured resin product, demonstrating that formaldehyde emissions 
are less than or equal to 0.04 ppm.
    (C) Development and implementation of a written control plan that 
includes analysis of representative samples to ensure compliance with 
(a)(2)(i)(A) and (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section.
    (D) Manufacturing, processing, distribution, or use of the PMN 
substance only as described in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order.
    (E) Processing or distribution for processing only under the 
conditions described in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order and which 
are capable of irreversibly curing the PMN substance into a thermoset 
polymer matrix.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[76 FR 61582, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10238  Formaldehyde, polymers with acetone-phenol reaction
products and phenol, potassium sodium salts.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as formaldehyde, 
polymers with acetone-phenol reaction products and phenol, potassium 
sodium salts (PMN P-09-147; CAS No. 1072227-60-1) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not 
apply to

[[Page 577]]

quantities of the PMN substance that have been completely reacted 
(cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) including:
    (A) Manufacture or import of the PMN substance only where the 
maximum unbound formaldehyde residual levels and typical polymer weight 
to weight composition ratios are as specified in the TSCA section 5(e) 
consent order.
    (B) Upon start-up of manufacture of the PMN at any new facility, 
conduct the American Society for Testing and Materials International 
(ASTM) E1333-10 test or its equivalent on a representative sample of the 
finished cured resin product, demonstrating that formaldehyde emissions 
are less than or equal to 0.04 ppm.
    (C) Development and implementation of a written control plan that 
includes analysis of representative samples to ensure compliance with 
(a)(2)(i)(A) and (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section.
    (D) Manufacturing, processing, distribution, or use of the PMN 
substance only as described in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order.
    (E) Processing or distribution for processing only under the 
conditions described in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order and which 
are capable of irreversibly curing the PMN substance into a thermoset 
polymer matrix.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[76 FR 61582, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10239  Trivalent chromium complexes of a substituted beta-
naphthol amine azo dye (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
trivalent chromium complexes of a substituted beta-naphthol amine azo 
dye (PMNs P-09-152 and P-09-153) are subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f) and (j) (acid dye for coloring anodized 
aluminum). Also, requirements as specified in Sec. 721.80(v)(1), 
(v)(2), (w)(1), (w)(2), (x)(1), and (x)(2), except that importing, 
processing, and use of the PMN substance in the form of a wet press cake 
containing greater than 30 percent water does not require submission of 
a SNUN.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61582, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10240  Olefinic carbocycle, reaction products with alkoxysilane
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as olefinic 
carbocycle, reaction products with alkoxysilane (PMN P-09-154) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 578]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61582, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10241  Olefinic carbocycle, reaction products with 
alkoxysilane, sulfurized (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as olefinic 
carbocycle, reaction products with alkoxysilane, sulfurized (PMN P-09-
155) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61583, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10242  Olefinic carbocycle, reaction products with 
alkoxysilane, polysulfurized (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as olefinic 
carbocycle, reaction products with alkoxysilane, polysulfurized (PMN P-
09-156) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61583, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10243  Phosphonic acid, P-[2-[bis(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]ethyl]
-, bis(2-chloroethyl) ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phosphonic acid, P-
[2-[bis(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]ethyl]-, bis(2-chloroethyl) ester (PMN P-
09-193; CAS No. 55088-28-3) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (intermediate in the manufacture of a 
polyurethane flame retardant).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61583, Oct. 5, 2011]

[[Page 579]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10244  Phosphonic acid, P-[2-[bis(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]ethyl]
-, 2-[bis(2- chloroethoxy)phosphinyl]ethyl 2-chloroethyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phosphonic acid, P-
[2-[bis(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]ethyl]-, 2-[bis(2- 
chloroethoxy)phosphinyl]ethyl 2-chloroethyl ester (PMN P-09-195; CAS No. 
1094213-37-2) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (intermediate in the manufacture of a 
polyurethane flame retardant).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61583, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10245  Branched and linear fatty alcohol ethoxylate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as branched 
and linear fatty alcohol ethoxylate (PMN P-09-207) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (site-limited, isolated, chemical 
intermediate).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section

[76 FR 61583, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10246  Alkylpolyhydroxy polymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkylpolyhydroxy polymer (PMN P-09-234) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61584, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10247  Bis-phenoxyethanol fluorene diacrylate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as bis-
phenoxyethanol fluorene diacrylate (PMN P-09-258) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]

[[Page 580]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61584, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10248  Aromatic bromide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as aromatic 
bromide (PMN P-09-259) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (synthetic intermediate).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61584, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10249  Disubstituted phenol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
disubstituted phenol (PMN P-09-316) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (g) and (s) (100 kilograms).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61584, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10250  Zirconium lysine complex (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
zirconium lysine complex (PMN P-09-356) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 120).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61584, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10251  Fatty acids, reaction products with alkanolamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fatty 
acids, reaction products with alkanolamine (PMN P-09-366) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

[[Page 581]]

    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61584, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10252  Thiosulfuric acid (H [bdi2]S [bdi2]O [bdi3]), 
manganese(2 + ) salt (1:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as thiosulfuric acid 
(H<INF>2</INF>S<INF>2</INF>O<INF>3</INF>), manganese(2 + ) salt (1:1) 
(PMN P-09-373; CAS No. 1033050-53-1) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 400).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61584, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10253  Butanedioic acid, 2-methylene-, polymer with 2,5 
furanedione, copper(2 + ) manganese(2 + ) sodium zinc salt, hydrogen 
peroxide-initiated.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as butanedioic acid, 2-
methylene-, polymer with 2,5 furanedione, copper(2 + ) manganese(2 + ) 
sodium zinc salt, hydrogen peroxide-initiated (PMN P-09-388; CAS No. 
1134078-27-5) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 34).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61585, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10254  Substituted acrylamide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted acrylamide (PMN P-09-390) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 21).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61585, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10255  Vinyl carboxylic acid ester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 582]]

chemical substance identified generically as vinyl carboxylic acid ester 
(PMN P-09-400) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(s) (100,000 kilograms).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 15).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61585, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10256  Benzoic acid, 4-(dimethylamino)-, 1,1'-[(methylimino)
di-2,1-ethanediyl] ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzoic acid, 4-
(dimethylamino)-, 1,1'-[(methylimino)di-2,l-ethanediyl] ester (PMN P-09-
479; CAS No. 925246-00-0) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61585, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10257  Butyl aromatic bisurea (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as butyl 
aromatic bisurea (PMN P-09-532) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61585, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10258  Aromatic hydrocarbon (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as aromatic 
hydrocarbon (PMN P-09-535) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61585, Oct. 5, 2011]

[[Page 583]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10259  Halogenated aromatic hydrocarbon (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
halogenated aromatic hydrocarbon (PMN P-09-540) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61586, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10260  Benzene, 1,3-bis(1-chloro-1-methylethyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzene, 1,3-bis(1-
chloro-1-methylethyl)- (PMN P-09-552; CAS No. 37133-18-9) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61586, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10261  Oxime, di-Me silane (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as oxime, 
di-Me silane (PMN P-09-589) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(s) (20,000 kilograms).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61586, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10262  Oxime, Me vinyl silane (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as oxime, 
Me vinyl silane (PMN P-09-590) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(s) (20,000 kilograms).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 584]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61586, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10263  Phenol, 4-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-2-nitro-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phenol, 4-(1,1-
dimethylethyl)-2-nitro- (PMN P-09-634; CAS No. 3279-07-0) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (raw material (reactant) for production of 
intermediate for a photographic chemical).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61586, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10264  Polycarbocyclic methacrylate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polycarbocyclic methacrylate (PMN P-10-343) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[76 FR 61586, Oct. 5, 2011]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10265  Ethane, 2-bromo-1, 1-difluoro-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as ethane, 2-bromo-1,1-
difluoro-. (PMN P-04-244; CAS No. 359-07-9) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragrap 
(a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted 
(cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b) 
(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). When determining which 
persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 
721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure 
or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or 
administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and 
procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, 
where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety 
and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirator with an assigned protection 
factor (APF) of at least 1000 meets the minimum requirements for Sec. 
721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in 
pressure demand or other positive pressure mode and equipped with a 
tight-fitting full facepiece.

[[Page 585]]

    (A) As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed in 
paragraph (a)(2)(i), a manufacturer, or processor may choose to follow 
the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the TSCA 
section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.5 mg/m\3\ 
as an 8-hour time-weighted average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as 
an alternative to the Sec. 721.63 respirator requirements may request 
to do so under Sec. 721.30. Persons whose Sec. 721.30 requests to use 
the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will receive NCELs provisions 
comparable to those contained in the corresponding section 5(e) consent 
order.
    (B) [Reserved]
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e)(concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv)(use respiratory protection or maintain workplace 
airborne concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-weighted average of 
0.5 mg/m\3\), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (k)(chemical intermediate for a herbicide) 
and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[78 FR 38217, June 26, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10266  Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic) (P-08-733 
and P-08-734).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as multi-
walled carbon nanotubes (PMNs P-08-733 and P-08-734) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not 
apply to quantities of the PMN substances after they have been 
completely reacted (cured); embedded or incorporated into a polymer 
matrix that has been reacted (cured); embedded, encapsulated or 
incorporated by the polymer binder into a permanent solid matrix (does 
not include slurries) that is not intended to undergo further 
processing, except for mechanical processing.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), 
(a)(6)(ii), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), 
engineering control measures (e.g., physical containment, exhaust 
control ventilation, or isolation) or administrative control measures 
(e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and 
implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)--certified 
respirator with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50 meets 
the minimum requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified air-
purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with N-100, P-
100, or R-100 filter.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (k), and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[78 FR 38218, June 26, 2013]

[[Page 586]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10267  [5,6]Fullerene-C60-Ih.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as [5,6]Fullerene-C60-
Ih (PMN P-09-54; CAS No. 99685-96-8) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities 
of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted (cured); 
embedded or incorporated into a polymer matrix that itself has been 
reacted (cured); embedded in a permanent solid polymer form that is not 
intended to undergo further processing except for mechanical processing.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), 
(a)(6)(ii), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), 
engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the 
operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following 
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirator meets the minimum requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-
certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped 
with N-100, P-100, or R-100 filter.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k)(an intermediate compound for use in 
producing downstream products that will in turn be used in organic 
electronic devices and an additive to improve mechanical properties or 
conductivity; a compound used to improve the mechanical properties of 
rubbers, plastics, and lubricants; or a compound for use as an additive 
to increase the conductivity of materials).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b),(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 38218, June 26, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10268  [5,6]Fullerene-C70-D5h(6).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as [5,6]Fullerene-C70-
D5h(6) (PMN P-09-55; CAS No. 115383-22-7) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted 
(cured); embedded or incorporated into a polymer matrix that itself has 
been reacted (cured); embedded in a permanent solid polymer form that is 
not intended to undergo further processing except for mechanical 
processing.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), 
(a)(6)(ii), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63 (a)(1) and (a)(4), 
engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the 
operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following 
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirator meets the minimum requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-
certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped 
with N-100, P-100, or R-100 filter.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (an intermediate compound for use in 
producing downstream products that will in turn be used in organic 
electronic devices and an additive to improve mechanical properties or 
conductivity; a compound used to improve the mechanical properties of

[[Page 587]]

rubbers, plastics, and lubricants; or a compound for use as an additive 
to increase the conductivity of materials).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 38218, June 26, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10269  [5,6]Fullerene-C84-D2.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as [5,6]Fullerene-C84-
D2 (PMN P-09-56; CAS No. 145809-19-4) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities 
of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted (cured); 
embedded or incorporated into a polymer matrix that itself has been 
reacted (cured); embedded in a permanent solid polymer form that is not 
intended to undergo further processing except for mechanical processing.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), 
(a)(6)(ii), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), 
engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the 
operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following 
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirator meets the minimum requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-
certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped 
with N-100, P-100, or R-100 filter.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k)(an intermediate compound for use in 
producing downstream products that will in turn be used in organic 
electronic devices and an additive to improve mechanical properties or 
conductivity; a compound used to improve the mechanical properties of 
rubbers, plastics, and lubricants; or a compound for use as an additive 
to increase the conductivity of materials).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b),(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 38219, June 26, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10270  [5,6]Fullerene-C84-D2d.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as [5,6]Fullerene-C84-
D2d (PMN P-09-57; CAS No. 145809-20-7) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted 
(cured); embedded or incorporated into a polymer matrix that itself has 
been reacted (cured); embedded in a permanent solid polymer form that is 
not intended to undergo further processing except for mechanical 
processing.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), 
(a)(6)(ii), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), 
engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of

[[Page 588]]

the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following 
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirator meets the minimum requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-
certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped 
with N100 cartridges.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (an intermediate compound for use in 
producing downstream products that will in turn be used in organic 
electronic devices and an additive to improve mechanical properties or 
conductivity; a compound used to improve the mechanical properties of 
rubbers, plastics, and lubricants; or a compound for use as an additive 
to increase the conductivity of materials).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b),(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 38219, June 26, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10271  3'H-Cyclopropa[1,9][5,6]fullerene-C60-Ih-3'-butanoic
acid, 3'-phenyl-, methyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 3'H-
Cyclopropa[1,9][5,6]fullerene-C60-Ih-3'-butanoic acid, 3'-phenyl-, 
methyl ester, (PMNs P-09-142 and Chemical A in P-09-416, CAS Number 
160848-22-6) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The 
requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN 
substances after they have been completely reacted (cured); embedded or 
incorporated into a polymer matrix that itself has been reacted (cured); 
or embedded in a permanent solid polymer form that is not intended to 
undergo further processing, except for mechanical processing.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(clothing which covers any other exposed 
areas of the arms, legs, and torso), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), 
(a)(6)(ii), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), 
engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the 
operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following 
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirator meets the minimum requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-
certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped 
with N100 cartridges.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (k) (use as a compound used in fabrication 
and/or operation of electronic devices that enables or improves the 
conductivity, efficiency, voltage or other characteristics of the 
device, a compound that improves the mechanical properties of lubricants 
and plastics, or use as an acceptor molecule in a polymer coating in an 
encapsulated organic photovoltaic electronic device) and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of

[[Page 589]]

Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.

[78 FR 38219, June 26, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10272  3'H-Cyclopropa[8,25][5,6]fullerene-C70-D5h(6)-3'
-butanoic acid, 3'-phenyl-,methyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as 3'H-
Cyclopropa[8,25][5,6]fullerene-C70-D5h(6)-3'-butanoic acid, 3'-phenyl-, 
methyl ester (PMNs P-09-143 and Chemical B in P-09-416, CAS Number 
609771-63-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The 
requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN 
substances after they have been completely reacted (cured); embedded or 
incorporated into a polymer matrix that itself has been reacted (cured); 
or embedded in a permanent solid polymer form that is not intended to 
undergo further processing, except for mechanical processing.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2) (clothing which covers any other exposed 
areas of the arms, legs, and torso), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), 
(a)(6)(ii), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), 
engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the 
operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following 
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirator meets the minimum requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-
certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped 
with N100 cartridges.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (use as a compound used in fabrication 
and/or operation of electronic devices that enables or improves the 
conductivity, efficiency, voltage or other characteristics of the 
device, a compound that improves the mechanical properties of lubricants 
and plastics, or use as an acceptor molecule in a polymer coating in an 
encapsulated organic photovoltaic electronic device) and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[78 FR 38220, June 26, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10273  3'H-Cyclopropa[7,22][5,6]fullerene-C70-D5h(6)-3'
-butanoic acid, 3'-phenyl-, methyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as 3'H-
Cyclopropa[7,22][5,6]fullerene-C70-D5h(6)-3'-butanoic acid, 3'-phenyl-
,methyl ester (P-09-144 and Chemical C in P-09-416, CAS Number 1051371-
21-1) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of 
this rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN substances after they 
have been completely reacted (cured); embedded or incorporated into a 
polymer matrix that itself has been reacted (cured); or embedded in a 
permanent solid polymer form that is not intended to undergo further 
processing, except for mechanical processing.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2) (clothing which covers any other exposed 
areas of the arms, legs, and torso), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), 
(a)(6)(ii), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1)

[[Page 590]]

and (a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement 
of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative 
control measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be 
considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The 
following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-
certified respirator meets the minimum requirements for Sec. 
721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 cartridges.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (use as a compound used in fabrication 
and/or operation of electronic devices that enables or improves the 
conductivity, efficiency, voltage or other characteristics of the 
device, a compound that improves the mechanical properties of lubricants 
and plastics, or use as an acceptor molecule in a polymer coating in an 
encapsulated organic photovoltaic electronic device) and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[78 FR 38221, June 26, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10274  Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic) (P-09-188).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as multi-
walled carbon nanotubes (PMN P-09-188) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted 
(cured); embedded or incorporated into a polymer matrix that itself has 
been reacted (cured); or embedded in a permanent solid polymer form with 
a concentration of the PMN substance equal to or below 30 percent that 
is not intended to undergo further processing except for mechanical 
processing.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (a)(4), and (c). When 
determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as 
required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures 
(e.g., physical containment, exhaust control ventilation, or isolation) 
or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and 
procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, 
where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety 
and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirator meets the minimum requirements 
for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting 
full-face respirator equipped with N-100, P-100, or R-100 filter.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(f), (k), (m), (o), and (q).
    (iii) Release to Water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[78 FR 38221, June 26, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10275  Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic) (P-09-0417).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 591]]

chemical substance identified generically as multi-walled carbon 
nanotubes (PMN P-09-417) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 
The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN 
substance it has been completely reacted (cured); embedded or 
incorporated into a polymer matrix that itself has been reacted (cured); 
embedded in a permanent solid polymer form that is not intended to 
undergo further processing, except for mechanical processing.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), 
(a)(6)(ii), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), 
engineering control measures (e.g., physical containment, exhaust 
control ventilation, or isolation) or administrative control measures 
(e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and 
implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirator with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50 meets 
the minimum requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified air-
purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with N-100, P-
100, or R-100 filter.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(f), (k) (plastics additive to improve 
electrical, thermal and/or mechanical properties), (m), and (o).
    (iii) Release to Water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i) and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 38221, June 26, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10276  Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic) (P-10-39).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as multi-
walled carbon nanotubes (PMN P-10-39) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities 
of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted (cured); 
embedded or incorporated into a polymer matrix that itself has been 
reacted (cured); embedded in a permanent solid polymer, metal, glass, or 
ceramic form that is not intended to undergo further processing except 
for mechanical processing.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (a)(4), and (c). When 
determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as 
required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures 
(e.g., physical containment, exhaust control ventilation, or isolation) 
or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and 
procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, 
where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety 
and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an approved protection 
factor (APF) of at least 50 meets the minimum requirements for Sec. 
721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N-100, P-100, or R-100 filter.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (k), (m), (o), and (p)(120,000 kilograms of 
the aggregate of P-10-39 and P-10-40 the substance described in Sec. 
721.10277).
    (iii) Release to Water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a),

[[Page 592]]

(b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[78 FR 38222, June 26, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10277  Single-walled and multi-walled carbon nanotubes 
(generic) (P-10-40).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as single-
walled and multi-walled carbon nanotubes (PMN P-10-40) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not 
apply to quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely 
reacted (cured); embedded or incorporated into a polymer matrix that 
itself has been reacted (cured); embedded in a permanent solid polymer, 
metal, glass, or ceramic form that is not intended to undergo further 
processing except for mechanical processing.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (a)(4), and (c). When 
determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as 
required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures 
(e.g., physical containment, exhaust control ventilation, or isolation) 
or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and 
procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, 
where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety 
and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned protection 
factor (APF) of at least 50 meet the minimum requirements for Sec. 
721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N-100, P-100, or R-100 filter.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k), (m), (o), and (p)(120,000 kilograms of 
the aggregate of P-10-40 and P-10-39 the substance described in Sec. 
721.10276).
    (iii) Release to Water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[78 FR 38222, June 26, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10278  4,4'-Bipyridinium, 1-(phosphonoalkyl)-1'-substituted-,
salt with anion (1:2) (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 4,4'-
Bipyridinium, 1-(phosphonoalkyl)-1'-substituted-, salt with anion (1:2) 
(PMN P-10-224) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace: Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3)(applicable to gloves only), (a)(4), 
(a)(6), (b)(concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). When determining 
which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 
721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure 
or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or 
administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and 
procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, 
where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety 
and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned protection 
factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the minimum requirements for Sec. 
721.63(a)(4):

[[Page 593]]

    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose- fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters;
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters; or
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (j), (s)(1000 kilograms), (v)(1), and 
(v)(2).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.
    The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[78 FR 38222, June 26, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10279  Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic) (P-10-246).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as multi-
walled carbon nanotubes (PMN P-10-246) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted 
(cured); embedded or incorporated into a polymer matrix that itself has 
been reacted (cured); embedded in a permanent solid polymer form that is 
not intended to undergo further processing, except for mechanical 
processing.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), 
(a)(6)(ii), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), 
engineering control measures (e.g., physical containment, exhaust 
control ventilation, or isolation) or administrative control measures 
(e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and 
implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50 meet 
the minimum requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (B) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters; or
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(f), (k) (conductivity additive to resins, 
rubber, and to battery electrodes), and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of

[[Page 594]]

Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.

[78 FR 38222, June 26, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10280  Benzene ethenyl-, polymer with 1,3-butadiene,
brominated.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzene ethenyl-, 
polymer with 1,3-butadiene, brominated (PMN P-10-476; CAS No. 1195978-
93-8)) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (manufacture by the method where the 
average number molecular weight is in the range of 1000 to 10,000 
daltons, or where less than 5 percent of the particles are in the 
respirable range of 10 microns or less and the average number molecular 
weight is greater than or equal to 10,000 daltons).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 38223, June 26, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10281  Hexabromocyclododecane and 1,2,5,6,9,10-
hexabromocyclododecane.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as 
hexabromocyclododecane (CASRN 25637-99-4) and 1,2,5,6,9,10-
hexabromocyclododecane (CASRN 3194-55-6) are subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new use is use in consumer textiles, other than 
for use in motor vehicles.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Definitions. The definitions in Sec. 721.3 apply to this 
section. In addition, the following definitions apply:
    Consumer textile means any cloth, fabric, or other item produced 
during a milling process for textiles (including spinning, weaving, 
knitting, felting, or finishing), that is sold or made available either 
as a product or as part of a product, to a private individual who uses 
it in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, during 
recreation, or for any personal use or enjoyment. Consumer textiles can 
include, but are not limited to, bolts of cloth and draperies, as well 
as textiles that are part of upholstered household furniture and 
mattresses.
    Motor vehicle has the meaning found at 40 CFR 85.1703.
    (2) Revocation of article exemption. The provisions of Sec. 
721.45(f) do not apply to importers and processors of the chemical 
substances identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section as part of a 
textile.

[80 FR 57301, Sept. 23, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10282  Ethyleneamine polyphosphates (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
ethyleneamine polyphosphates (PMN P-09-248) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[[Page 595]]

    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 20305, Apr. 4, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10283  Poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)], .alpha.-sulfo-
.omega.-hydroxy-, C12-13-branched and linear alkyl ethers, sodium
salts.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-
ethanediyl)], .alpha.-sulfo-.omega.-hydroxy-, C12-13-branched and linear 
alkyl ethers, sodium salts (PMN P-10-486; CAS No. 958238-81-8) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(l).
    (ii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85. A 
significant new of the substances is any method of disposal of a waste 
stream containing the PMN substances other than by incineration or by 
injection into a Class I or II waste disposal well.
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(2)(ii), (b)(2)(ii), and (c)(2)(ii).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (j) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[77 FR 20305, Apr. 4, 2012, as amended at 80 FR 37166, June 30, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10284  Poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)], .alpha.-sulfo-.omega
.-hydroxy-, C14-15-branched and linear alkyl ethers, sodium salts.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-
ethanediyl)], .alpha.-sulfo-.omega.-hydroxy-, C14-15-branched and linear 
alkyl ethers, sodium salts (PMN P-10-487; CAS No. 958238-82-9) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(l).
    (ii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85. A 
significant new of the substances is any method of disposal of a waste 
stream containing the PMN substances other than by incineration or by 
injection into a Class I or II waste disposal well.
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(2)(ii), (b)(2)(ii), and (c)(2)(ii).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (j) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[77 FR 20306, Apr. 4, 2012, as amended at 80 FR 37166, June 30, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10285  Formaldehyde, polymer with 4-(1,1-dimethylethyl)
phenol, reaction products with 1-piperazineethanamine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as formaldehyde, 
polymer with 4-(1,1-dimethylethyl)phenol, reaction products with 1-
piperazineethanamine (PMN P-11-33; CAS No. 1191244-16-2) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 17 parts per billion (ppb)).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 596]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 20306, Apr. 4, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10286  Formaldehyde, polymer with .alpha.-(2-aminomethylethyl)-
.omega.-(2-aminomethylethoxy) poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)] and 
4-(1,1-dimethylethyl)phenol.
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as formaldehyde, 
polymer with .alpha.-(2-aminomethylethyl)- .omega.-(2-aminomethylethoxy) 
poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)] and 4-(1,1-dimethylethyl)phenol) (PMN 
P-11-34; CAS No. 1192146-78-3) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 21 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 20306, Apr. 4, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10287  Infused carbon nanostructures (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as infused 
carbon nanostructures (PMN P-11-188) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (manufacturing process described in the 
PMN; the process described in the PMN includes the incorporation of the 
PMN substance into pellets).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[77 FR 20306, Apr. 4, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10288  Cyclohexane, oxidized, by-products from, distn.
residues.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as cyclohexane, 
oxidized, by-products from, distn. residues (PMN P-11-316; CAS No. 
1014979-92-0) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 4 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[77 FR 20306, Apr. 4, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10289  Hexanedioic acid polymer with aliphatic polyol
dihydrogen phosphate aromatic ester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 597]]

chemical substance identified generically as hexanedioic acid polymer 
with aliphatic polyol dihydrogen phosphate aromatic ester (PMN P-11-333) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 20307, Apr. 4, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10290  Alkenoyloxy arylphenone (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkenoyloxy arylphenone (PMN P-11-424) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 26).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 20307, Apr. 4, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10292  Silicate (2-), hexafluoro-, cesium (1:2).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as silicate (2-) 
hexafluoro-cesium (1:2) (PMN P-11-546; CAS No. 16923-87-8) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (use as brazing (metal joining) agent).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 20307, Apr. 4, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10293  Benzoic acid, 4-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-, hydrazide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzoic acid, 4-
(1,1-dimethylethyl)-, hydrazide (PMN P-11-578; CAS No. 43100-38-5) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2 ppb).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.

[[Page 598]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 20307, Apr. 4, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10294  Cyclohexanol, 2,6-bis(1,1-dimethylethyl)-4-methyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as cyclohexanol, 2,6-
bis(1,1-dimethylethyl)-4-methyl- (PMN P-11-580; CAS No. 163119-16-2) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 20307, Apr. 4, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10295  IPDI modified isophthalic acid, neopentyl glycol
and adipic acid (generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as IPDI 
modified isophthalic acid, neopentyl glycol and adipic acid (PMN P-11-
591) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(o) and (s) (15,000 kilograms).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 20308, Apr. 4, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10296  1,3-Benzenediol, 4-[1-[[3-(lH-imidazol-1-yl)propyl]
imino] ethyl]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,3-benzenediol, 4-[ 
1-[[3-(lH-imidazol-1-yl)propyl]imino[ethyl]- (PMN P-11-608; CAS No. 
1313999-39-1) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1 ppb).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 20308, Apr. 4, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10297  Tin, C16-18 and C18-unsatd. fatty acids castor-oil
fatty acids complexes.

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as tin, C16-18 and C18-
unsatd. fatty acids castor-oil fatty acids complexes (PMN P-11-637; CAS 
No. 1315588-63-6) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f) and (o).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 599]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 20308, Apr. 4, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10298  MDI terminated polyester polyurethane polymer 
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as MDI 
terminated polyester polyurethane polymer (P-11-662) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 20308, Apr. 4, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10299  Polymeric MDI based polyurethanes (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
polymeric MDI based polyurethanes (PMNs P-00-2, P-00-5, and P-00-6) are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25264, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10300  Benzeneacetic acid, .alpha.-chloro-.alpha.-phenyl-,
ethyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzeneacetic acid, 
.alpha.-chloro-.alpha.-phenyl-, ethyl ester (PMN P-00-85; CAS No. 52460-
86-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25264, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10301  Reaction products of fatty alcohols, 
(aminoethylaminopropyl) dialkoxymethylsilane, glycidol, 
and hydroxy-terminated polydimethylsiloxane (generic).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as reaction 
products of fatty alcohols, (aminoethylaminopropyl) 
dialkoxymethylsilane, glycidol, and hydroxy-terminated 
polydimethylsiloxane (PMN P-00-317)

[[Page 600]]

is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 40).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25264, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10302  Zinc ammonium phosphate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as zinc 
ammonium phosphate (PMN P-00-442) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25264, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10303  Polyether modified polysiloxane, acrylated (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyether modified polysiloxane, acrylated (PMN P-00-833) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 4).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25264, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10304  Functionalized polymethine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
functionalized polymethine (PMN P-00-1099) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25265, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10305  Modified cyclohexane esters (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 601]]

chemical substance identified generically as modified cyclohexane esters 
(PMN P-00-1108) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25265, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10306  Substituted phenylepoxide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted phenylepoxide (PMN P-01-114) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 6).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25265, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10307  Acrylate resin (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as acrylate 
resin (PMN P-01-343) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25265, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10308  Ethoxylated, propoxylated diamine diaryl substituted
phenylmethane ester with alkenylsuccinate, dialkylethanolamine salt
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
ethoxylated, propoxylated diamine diaryl substituted phenylmethane ester 
with alkenylsuccinate, dialkylethanolamine salt (PMN P-01-384) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (ink colorant).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 25392, May 1, 2013]

[[Page 602]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10313  Fatty acids, C16-18 and C18-unsatd., Me esters,
epoxidized.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as fatty acids, C16-18 
and C18-unsatd., Me esters, epoxidized (PMN P-02-249; CAS No. 158318-67-
3) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 8).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25266, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10314  Dialkyl dithiocarbamate esters (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as dialkyl 
dithiocarbamate esters (PMNs P-02-778, P-02-779, and P-02-780) are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25266, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10315  1,5-Dioxa-9-azaspiro[5.5]undecane, 3,3,8,8,10,10-
hexamethyl-9-[1-[4-(2-oxiranylmethoxy)phenyl]ethoxy]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,5-dioxa-9-
azaspiro[5.5]undecane, 3,3,8,8,10,10-hexamethyl-9-[1-[4-(2-
oxiranylmethoxy)phenyl]ethoxy]- (PMN P-02-833; CAS No. 434898-80-3) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25266, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10316  Dicyclopentadiene polymer with maleic anhydride
and alkyl alcohols (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
dicyclopentadiene polymer with maleic anhydride and alkyl alcohols (PMN 
P-02-872) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 3).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 603]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25267, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10317  Alkyl phosphate derivative (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkyl 
phosphate derivative (PMN P-02-1040) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25267, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10318  Mannich bases (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as mannich 
bases (PMNs P-02-1078 and P-02-1080) are subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 40).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25267, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10319  Alkylamides, ethoxylated (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkylamides, ethoxylated (PMN P-03-42) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 4).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25267, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10320  Fatty acid amide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fatty 
acid amide (PMN P-03-186) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 8).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 604]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25267, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10321  Bis[phenyl, 2H-1,3-benzoxazine]derivative (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
bis[phenyl, 2H-1,3-benzoxazine]derivative (PMN P-03-194) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25267, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10322  Metallic diol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as metallic 
diol (PMN P-03-196) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 6).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25267, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10323  Glycerol fatty acid ester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as glycerol 
fatty acid ester (PMN P-03-248) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 6).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25268, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10324  Thionocarbamate derivative (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
thionocarbamate derivative (PMN P-03-362) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 50).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 605]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25268, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10325  Cyclosilazanes, di-Me, Me hydrogen, polymers with 
di-Me, Me hydrogen silazanes, reaction products with 3-(triethoxysilyl)
-1-propanamine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as cyclosilazanes, di-
Me, Me hydrogen, polymers with di-Me, Me hydrogen silazanes, reaction 
products with 3-(triethoxysilyl)-1-propanamine (PMN P-03-442; CAS No. 
475645-84-2) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25268, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10326  2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, methyl ester, polymer
with butyl 2-propenoate, ethyl 2-propenoate, zinc 2-methyl-2-propenoate
(1:2) and zinc 2-propenoate (1:2), 2,2'-(1,2-diazenediyl)bis[2-
methylbutanenitrile]- and 2,2'-(1,2-diazenediyl)bis[2-methylpropanen
itrile]-initiated.

          
          
    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenoic acid, 2-
methyl-, methyl ester, polymer with butyl 2-propenoate, ethyl 2-
propenoate, zinc 2-methyl-2-propenoate (1:2) and zinc 2-propenoate 
(1:2), 2,2'-(1,2-diazenediyl)bis[2-methylbutanenitrile]- and 2,2'-(1,2-
diazenediyl)bis[2-methylpropanenitrile]-initiated (PMN P-03-458; CAS No. 
460739-39-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25268, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10327  Salt of mixed fatty amidoamines and polyethylenepolyamines
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as salt of 
mixed fatty amidoamines and polyethylenepolyamines (PMN P-03-529) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25268, Apr. 27, 2012]

[[Page 606]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10328  Salt of polyalkylenepolyamine derivative (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as salt of 
polyalkylenepolyamine derivative (PMN P-03-530) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25268, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10329  Salt of mixed fatty amidoamines (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as salt of 
mixed fatty amidoamines (PMN P-03-531) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25269, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10330  Pyrazolone derivative (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
pyrazolone derivative (PMN P-03-722) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25269, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10331  Aromatic isocyanate methacrylate blocked (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as aromatic 
isocyanate methacrylate blocked (PMN P-03-767) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25269, Apr. 27, 2012]

[[Page 607]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10332  Lithium metal phosphate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as lithium 
metal phosphate (PMN P-03-824) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 4).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25269, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10333  Substituted benzamine thio-ether (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted benzamine thio-ether (PMN P-03-840) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25269, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10334  Ethanol, 2,2'-[(3-[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]pentyl]imino]bis-].

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as ethanol, 2,2'-[(3-
[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]pentyl]imino]bis- (PMN P-03-861; CAS No. 284477-82-3) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 20).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25269, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10335  1-Pentanamine, 3-[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-pentanamine, 3-
[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]- (PMN P-03-862; CAS No. 174615-16-8) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 7).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25270, Apr. 27, 2012]

[[Page 608]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10336  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-(1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)
-.omega.-([1,1'-biphenyl]-2-yloxy)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as poly(oxy-1,2-
ethanediyl), .alpha.-(1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)-.omega.-([1,1'-biphenyl]-2-
yloxy)- (PMN P-04-1; CAS No. 72009-86-0) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 3).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25270, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10337  Copper, iodotris(triphenylphosphine)-, (T-4)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as copper, 
iodotris(triphenylphosphine)-, (T-4)- (PMN P-04-6; CAS No. 15709-82-7) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25270, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10338  2-Propenoic acid, 1,1'-(1,9-nonanediyl) ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenoic acid, 
1,1'-(1,9-nonanediyl) ester (PMN P-04-53; CAS No. 107481-28-7) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25270, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10339  Adipic acid, substituted propane, alkyldiol, acrylate
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as adipic 
acid, substituted propane, alkyldiol, acrylate (PMN P-04-113) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a),

[[Page 609]]

(b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25270, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10340  Potassium zinc fluoride (KZnF [bdi3]).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as potassium zinc 
fluoride (KZnF<INF>3</INF>) (PMN P-04-146; CAS No. 13827-02-6) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25270, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10341  Amino alkyl organoborane (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as amino 
alkyl organoborane (PMN P-04-338) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 7).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25270, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10342  Quaternary ammonium compounds, fatty alkyl dialkyl
hydroxide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
quaternary ammonium compounds, fatty alkyl dialkyl hydroxide (PMN P-04-
516) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 4).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25271, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10343  Alkylated aryloxyaniline thiourea (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkylated aryloxyaniline thiourea (PMN P-04-563) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 610]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25271, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10344  Alkylated aromatic isothiocyanate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkylated aromatic isothiocyanate (PMN P-04-810) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25271, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10345  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, 1,2-bis
(methylcyclohexyl) ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,2-
benzenedicarboxylic acid, 1,2-bis(methylcyclohexyl) ester (PMN P-05-110; 
CAS No. 27987-25-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25271, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10346  3H-Indolium, 2-[2-[2-chloro-3-[2-(1,3-dihydro-3,
3-dimethyl-1-propyl-2H-indol-2-ylidene)ethylidene]-1-cyclohexen-
1-yl]ethenyl]-3,3-dimethyl-1-propyl-, iodide (1:1).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 3H-indolium, 2-[2-
[2-chloro-3-[2-(1,3-dihydro-3,3-dimethyl-1-propyl-2H-indol-2-
ylidene)ethylidene]-1-cyclohexen-1-yl]ethenyl]-3,3-dimethyl-1-propyl-, 
iodide (1:1) (PMN P-05-599; CAS No. 207399-07-3) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25271, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10347  Bicyclo[2.2.1] heptanedimethanamine, N,N'-bis
(1,2-dimethylpropylidene)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 
bicyclo[2.2.1]heptanedimethanamine, N,N'-bis(1,2-dimethylpropylidene)- 
(PMN P-06-268; CAS No. 664980-30-7) is subject to reporting under this 
section

[[Page 611]]

for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25271, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10348  Aspartic acid, N,N'-(iminodi-alkanediyl)bis,
tetraalkane esters (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
aspartic acid, N,N'-(iminodi-alkanediyl)bis, tetraalkane esters (PMNs P-
06-623 and P-06-624) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 3).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25271, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10349  1,4-Benzenediamine, N'-(alkyl)-N-[4-[(alkyl)amino]
phenyl]-N-phenyl- (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 1,4-
benzenediamine, N'-(alkyl)-N-[4-[(alkyl)amino]phenyl]-N-phenyl- (PMN P-
06-731) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25272, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10350  Amines, C11-14-branched and linear alkyl.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as amines, C11-14-
branched and linear alkyl (PMN P-06-742; CAS No. 863766-30-7) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25272, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10351  Carbomonocycle, bis[(4-methylphenoxy)methyl]-
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 612]]

chemical substance identified generically as carbomonocycle, bis[(4-
methylphenoxy)methyl]- (PMN P-07-351) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25272, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10352  Dimethyl terephthalate, polymer with alkyl diol 
and substituted benzoates (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as dimethyl 
terephthalate, polymer with alkyl diol and substituted benzoates (PMN P-
08-93) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 60).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25272, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10353  Organosulfide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
organosulfide (PMN P-08-510) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25272, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10354  1,1'-Biphenyl, 3,3',4,4'-tetramethyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,1'-biphenyl, 
3,3',4,4'-tetramethyl- (PMN P-08-623; CAS No. 4920-95-0) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25272, Apr. 27, 2012]

[[Page 613]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10355  Poly[oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-(1-oxododecyl)-.
omega.-[3-triethoxysilyl)propoxy]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as poly[oxy-1,2-
ethanediyl), .alpha.-(1-oxododecyl)-.omega.-[3-triethoxysilyl)propoxy]- 
(PMN P-08-722; CAS No. 1041420-54-5) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25273, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10356  Zinc, bis[3-(acetyl-.kappa.O)-6-methyl-2H-pyran-2,
4(3H)-dionato-.kappa.O4]diaqua-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as zinc, bis[3-
(acetyl-.kappa.O)-6-methyl-2H-pyran-2,4(3H)-dionato-.kappa.O4]diaqua- 
(PMN P-09-98; CAS No. 171884-15-4) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 4).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25273, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10357  Iron, citrate phosphate potassium complexes.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as iron, citrate 
phosphate potassium complexes (PMN P-09-382; CAS No. 120579-31-9) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (micronutrient in fertilizer or soil 
amendment which will only be transported in containers with a maximum 
capacity of 20 gallons or in bottom-loading totes).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25273, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10358  Formaldehyde reaction products with aryl amine
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
formaldehyde reaction products with aryl amine (PMN P-09-546) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g) and (j) (use other than as an intermediate 
that has been manufactured using the process described in the 
premanufacture notice).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 614]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25273, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10359  Cardanol-based alkyl phosphate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
cardanol-based alkyl phosphate (PMN P-09-613) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (site-limited polymer modifier in non-
consumer products).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 18).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25273, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10360  1-Substituted propane, 3-(triethoxysilyl)-, reaction
products with polyethylene glycol mono-(branched tridecyl) ether
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 1-
substituted propane, 3-(triethoxysilyl)-, reaction products with 
polyethylene glycol mono-(branched tridecyl) ether (PMN P-09-628) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 4).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25273, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10361  Anthraquinonedicarboximide, diamino-N-alkyl-
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
anthraquinonedicarboximide, diamino-N-alkyl- (PMN P-10-15) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25274, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10362  Oils, callitropsis nootkatensis.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as oils, callitropsis 
nootkatensis (PMN P-10-44; CAS No. 1069136-34-0) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.

[[Page 615]]

    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25274, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10363  Alkenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-oxiranylmethyl ester,
reaction products with 4,4' -methylenebis (cyclohexanamine) (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkenoic 
acid, 2-methyl-, 2-oxiranylmethyl ester, reaction products with 4,4' -
methylenebis (cyclohexanamine) (PMN P-10-47) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4) and (b)(4) (N = 44).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25274, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 21.10364  Halogenated aromatic amine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
halogenated aromatic amine (PMN P-10-53) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25274, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10365  Butanoic acid, 3-mercapto-2-methyl-, ethyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as butanoic acid, 3-
mercapto-2-methyl-, ethyl ester (PMN P-10-56; CAS No. 888021-82-7) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(s) (100 kilograms).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 8).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25274, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10366  Benzene, 4-bromo-1,2-dimethyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 616]]

chemical substance identified as benzene, 4-bromo-1,2-dimethyl-(PMN P-
10-76; CAS No. 583-71-1) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 30).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25274, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10367  Hydroxy-aryl, polymer with substituted benzene,
cyanate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as hydroxy-
aryl, polymer with substituted benzene, cyanate (PMN P-10-83) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 3).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25275, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10368  Triphenodioxazine derivatives (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
triphenodioxazine derivatives (PMN P-10-84) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25275, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10369  Carbonic acid, diphenyl ester, polymer with diphenyl
P-methylphosphonate and 4,4'-(1-methylethylidene) bis[phenol].

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as carbonic acid, 
diphenyl ester, polymer with diphenyl P-methylphosphonate and 4,4'-(1-
methylethylidene) bis[phenol] (PMN P-10-88; CAS No. 77226-90-5) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (flame retardant and flame retardant 
additive, where the particle size is greater than 10 microns).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a),

[[Page 617]]

(b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25275, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10370  Phosphonic acid, p-octyl-, lanthanum (3 + ) salt
(2:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phosphinic acid, p-
octyl-, lanthanum (3 + ) salt (2:1) (PMN P-10-99; CAS No. 1186211-38-0) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 8).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25275, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10371  Butanoic acid, 3-mercapto-,1,1'-[2-(hydroxymethyl)
-2-(substituted-1-oxoalkoxy)methyl)-1,3-propanediyl] ester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as butanoic 
acid, 3-mercapto-,1,1'-[2-(hydroxymethyl)-2-(substituted-1-
oxoalkoxy)methyl)-1,3-propanediyl] ester (PMN P-10-136, Chemical A) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f) and (j) (monomer for acryl-based ultra-
violet (UV)-curing coatings, inks, and adhesives).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(b)(4) and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25275, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10372  Butanoic acid, 3-mercapto-,1,1'-[2,2-bis[(substituted-
1-oxoalkoxy)methyl]-1,3-propanediyl] ester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as butanoic 
acid, 3-mercapto-,1,1'-[2,2-bis[(substituted-1-oxoalkoxy)methyl]-1,3-
propanediyl] ester (PMN P-10-136, Chemical B) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f) and (j) (monomer for acryl-based UV-curing 
coatings, inks, and adhesives).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(b)(4) and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25275, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10373  1H-Imidazole, 1-(1-methylethyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1H-

[[Page 618]]

imidazole, 1-(1-methylethyl)- (PMN P-10-153; CAS No. 4532-96-1) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 70).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25276, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10374  Silane, (3-chloropropoxy)dimethyl(1-methylethyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as silane, (3-
chloropropoxy)dimethyl(1-methylethyl)-(PMN P-10-163; CAS No. 1191036-21-
1) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii) (gloves and goggles), (a)(3), 
(a)(4). The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and 
Health (NIOSH)-certified respirator with an assigned protection factor 
(APF) of at least 10 meets the minimum requirements for Sec. 
721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified organic vapor respirator.
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25276, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10375  Hydroxypropyl methacrylate, reaction products with
propylene oxide and ethylene oxide, copolymer with N-vinyl caprolactam
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
hydroxypropyl methacrylate, reaction products with propylene oxide and 
ethylene oxide, copolymer with N-vinyl caprolactam (PMN P-10-200) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 155).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25276, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10376  Alkyltin halide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkyltin 
halide (PMN P-10-222) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 22).

[[Page 619]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[77 FR 25276, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10377  1,2-Cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, benzyl C8-10-
isoalkyl esters, C9-rich.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,2-
cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, benzyl C8-10-isoalkyl esters, C9-rich (PMN 
P-10-247, Chemical A; CAS No. 1190265-49-6) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), and (a)(3).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25276, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10378  1,2-Cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, benzyl nonyl ester,
branched and linear.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,2-
cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, benzyl nonyl ester, branched and linear 
(PMN P-10-247, Chemical B; CAS No. 1190264-82-4) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), and (a)(3).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25276, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10379  Propanoic acid, 3-(dodecylthio)-, 2-(1,1-dimethylethyl)
-4-[[5-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-4-hydroxy-2-methylphenyl]thio]-5-methylphenyl
ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as propanoic acid, 3-
(dodecylthio)-, 2-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-4-[[5-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-4-
hydroxy-2-methylphenyl]thio]-5-methylphenyl ester (PMN P-10-266; CAS No. 
69075-62-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(s) (10,000 kilograms).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.

[[Page 620]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25277, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10380  Benzoic acid, 3-amino-2-mercapto-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzoic acid, 3-
amino-2-mercapto- (PMN P-10-285; CAS No. 71807-60-8) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 33).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25277, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10381  Cyclic carboxylic acid, polymer with dihydroxy dialkyl
ether, hydroxy substituted alkane and carboxylic acid anhydride,
methacrylate terminated polyester (generic).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as cyclic 
carboxylic acid, polymer with dihydroxy dialkyl ether, hydroxy 
substituted alkane and carboxylic acid anhydride, methacrylate 
terminated polyester (PMN P-10-290) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 8).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25277, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10382  Diphosphoric acid, calcium salt (1:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as diphosphoric acid, 
calcium salt (1:1) (PMN P-10-313; CAS No. 14866-19-4) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (opacifying agent for ceramic whiteware).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 60).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25277, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10383  Urea, N,N'-(methyl-1,3-phenylene)bis[N',N'-bis
[3-polyalkyleneamino]-, compd. with formaldehyde polymer with
phenol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as urea, 
N,N'-(methyl-1,3-phenylene)bis[N',N'-bis[3-polyalkyleneamino]-, compd. 
with formaldehyde polymer with phenol (PMN P-10-324) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant

[[Page 621]]

new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 43).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25277, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10384  Substituted alkanolamine phenol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted alkanolamine phenol (PMN P-10-332) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25277, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10385  Phenoxy alkyl ether (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as phenoxy 
alkyl ether (PMN P-10-344) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f) and (j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[77 FR 25278, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10386  Substituted phenol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted phenol (PMN P-10-361) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25278, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10387  Substituted bis-phenol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 622]]

chemical substance identified generically as substituted bis-phenol (PMN 
P-10-362) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25278, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10388  Bisphospite nickel cyanoalkyl complex (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
bisphospite nickel cyanoalkyl complex (PMN P-10-364) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 5).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25278, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10389  Styrene, copolymer with acrylic acid, salt with
alkoxylated alkenylamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as styrene, 
copolymer with acrylic acid, salt with alkoxylated alkenylamine (PMN P-
10-401) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 27). Where primary, secondary, and 
tertiary waste treatment will occur, or treatment in a lined self-
contained solar evaporation pond where UV light will degrade the 
substance, the number of kilograms per day per site is calculated after 
wastewater treatment.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25278, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10390  Acetoacetanilide reaction product with multifunctional
acrylate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
acetoacetanilide reaction product with multifunctional acrylate (PMN P-
10-403) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.

[[Page 623]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25278, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10391  Copper gallium indium selenide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as copper gallium 
indium selenide (PMN P-10-424; CAS No. 144972-86-1) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and 
(c). The following NIOSH-certified respirators with an assigned 
protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the minimum requirements for 
Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose- fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters;
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters; or
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (1) As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed in 
paragraph (a)(2)(i), a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose 
to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) of 1.5 mg/m\3\ as an 8-
hour time-weighted-average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an 
alternative to the Sec. 721.63 respirator requirements may request to 
do so under Sec. 721.30.
    (2) [Reserved]
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv) (use respiratory protection or 
maintain workplace airborne concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-
weighted average of 1.5 mg/m\3\), and (g)(5).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), and (h) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25279, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10392  Halo substituted sulfamidylbenzyluracil (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as halo 
substituted sulfamidylbenzyluracil (PMN P-10-426) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(b) and (g).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25279, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10393  Sodium bromide MDA complex (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as sodium 
bromide MDA complex

[[Page 624]]

(PMN P-10-433) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 3).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25279, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10394  Copolymer of anhydride, a diol and a disubstituted
diol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
copolymer of anhydride, a diol and a disubstituted diol (PMN P-10-436) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 55).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25279, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10395  Fatty acids, C14-18 and C16-18 unsatd., polymers
with adipic acid and triethanolamine, di-Me sulfate-quaternized.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as fatty acids, C14-18 
and C16-18 unsat., polymers with adipic acid and triethanolamine, di-Me 
sulfate-quaternized (PMN P-10-458; CAS No. 1211825-32-9) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 5).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25279, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10396  Dimethyl siloxy-polyfluoro methyl siloxy-poly
(oxyalkylenediyl) methyl siloxy copolymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as dimethyl 
siloxy-polyfluoro methyl siloxy-poly(oxyalkylenediyl) methyl siloxy 
copolymer (PMN P-10-470) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (recording and reporting of certain 
fluorinated impurities in the starting raw material, and manufacture of 
the PMN substance not to exceed the maximum established impurity levels 
of certain fluorinated impurities) and (t).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 625]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[77 FR 25280, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10397  Alkyl acrylate-polyfluoro methacrylate-poly
(oxyalkylenediyl)-methacrylates (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as alkyl 
acrylate-polyfluoro methacrylate-poly(oxyalkylenediyl)- methacrylates 
(PMNs P-10-471 and P-10-472) are subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (recording and reporting of certain 
fluorinated impurities in the starting raw material, and manufacture of 
the PMN substances not to exceed the maximum established impurity levels 
of certain fluorinated impurities) and (t).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[77 FR 25280, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10398  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl),. alpha., -monoalkyl
ethers-.omega.-mono (hydrogen maleate)- (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha., -monoalkyl ethers-.omega.-mono 
(hydrogen maleate)- (PMN P-10-495) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(l).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25280, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10399  Benzoic acid azo-substituted pyridine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as benzoic 
acid azo-substituted pyridine (PMN P-10-501) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.

[[Page 626]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25280, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10400  Oxirane, 2-ethyl-, polymer with oxirane, 
mono-C12-14-sec-alkyl ethers.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as oxirane, 2-ethyl-, 
polymer with oxirane, mono-C12-14-sec-alkyl ethers (PMN P-10-517; CAS 
No. 1013910-41-2) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 14), where the amount of substance 
reasonably likely to be removed during waste pretreatment prior to 
release may be subtracted in calculating the number of kilograms 
released.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25280, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10401  Oxirane, 2-ethyl-, polymer with oxirane,
mono-C11-15-sec-alkyl ethers.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as oxirane, 2-ethyl-, 
polymer with oxirane, mono C11-15-sec-alkyl ethers (PMN P-10-518; CAS 
No. 1022990-65-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 20), where the amount of substance 
reasonably likely to be removed during waste pretreatment prior to 
release may be subtracted in calculating the number of kilograms 
released.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25280, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10408  Poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)], .alpha.-[2-[[2,2-
dimethyl-3-[(1-oxododecyl) oxy]propylidene] amino] methylethyl]-.omega.
-[2-[[2,2-dimethyl-3-[(1-oxododecyl)oxy]propylidene] 
amino]methylethoxy]-.
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-
ethanediyl)], .alpha.-[2-[[2,2-dimethyl-3-[(1-
oxododecyl)oxy]propylidene] amino] methylethyl]-.omega.-[2-[[2,2-
dimethyl-3-[(1-oxododecyl)oxy]propylidene]amino] methylethoxy]- (PMN P-
10-556; CAS No. 613246-75-6) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 25282, Apr. 27, 2012]

[[Page 627]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10409  Poly(oxyalkylenediyl), .alpha.-[[[methyl-3-
[[[(polyfluoroalkyl)oxy]carbonyl] amino]phenyl]amino]carbonyl]-
.omega.-methoxy-(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
poly(oxyalkylenediyl), .alpha.-[[[methyl-3- [[[(polyfluoroalkyl) 
oxy]carbonyl] amino]phenyl]amino] carbonyl]- .omega.-methoxy- (PMN P-11-
217) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (recording and reporting of certain 
fluorinated impurities in the starting raw material, and manufacture of 
the PMN substance not to exceed the maximum established impurity levels 
of certain fluorinated impurities) and (t).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[77 FR 25282, Apr. 27, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10410  Polyether ester acid compound with a polyamine
amide (generic) (P-05-714).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyether ester acid compound with a polyamine amide (PMN P-05-714) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (additive for industrial paints, industrial 
coatings, and architectural coatings).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 24624, Apr. 25, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10411  Alkanenitrile, bis(cyanoalkyl)amino (generic)
(P-07-537).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkanenitrile, bis(cyanoalkyl)amino (PMN P-07-537) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do 
not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after it has been 
completely reacted (cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), 
(a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). 
The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health 
(NIOSH)-certified respirator with an assigned protection factor (APF) of 
at least 5 meets the minimum requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-
certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped 
with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters; NIOSH-
certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a loose- 
fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters; NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with 
a tight-fitting facepiece (full-face) and HEPA filters; or NIOSH-
certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or 
continuous flow mode and equipped

[[Page 628]]

with a hood or helmet, or tight-fitting facepiece (full-face) and HEPA 
filters.
    (A) As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed in 
paragraph (a)(2)(i), a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose 
to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in 
the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 70 
microgram/cubic meter ([micro]g/m\3\) as an 8-hour time-weighted 
average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to the Sec. 
721.63 respirator requirements may request to do so under Sec. 721.30. 
Persons whose Sec. 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are 
approved by EPA will receive NCELs provisions comparable to those 
contained in the corresponding TSCA section 5(e) consent order.
    (B) [Reserved]
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e)(concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), 
(g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv) (use respiratory protection, or 
maintain workplace airborne concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-
weighted average of 70 [micro]g/m\3\), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), 
(g)(4)(i), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(h) and (q).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85(a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2).
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of 
this section.

[77 FR 24624, Apr. 25, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10412  Phosphonic acid ester (generic) (P-07-706).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
phosphonic acid ester (PMN P-07-706) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted 
(cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(v), 
(a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 
0.1 percent) and (c). The following National Institute for Occupational 
Safety and Health (NIOSH)-approved respirators with an assigned 
protection factor (APF) of 15 meet the minimum requirements for Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4): NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with the appropriate gas/vapor cartridges (organic 
vapor, acid gas, or substance-specific); NIOSH-certified powered air-
purifying respirator equipped with a loose-fitting hood or helmet and 
the appropriate gas/vapor cartridges (organic vapor, acid gas, or 
substance-specific); NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator 
with a tight-fitting facepiece (full-face) and equipped with the 
appropriate gas/vapor cartridges (organic vapor, acid gas, or substance-
specific); NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (full-face); or NIOSH-certified supplied-air 
respirator operated in pressure demand or continuous flow mode and 
equipped with a loose-fitting hood or helmet or a tight-fitting 
facepiece (full-face) if no cartridge service life testing is available.
    (A) As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed in 
paragraph (a)(2)(i), a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose 
to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in 
the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 1.0 
millgram/cubic meter (mg/m\3\) as an 8-hour time-

[[Page 629]]

weighted-average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to 
the Sec. 721.63 respirator requirements may request to do so under 
Sec. 721.30. Persons whose Sec. 721.30 requests to use the NCELs 
approach are approved by EPA will receive NCELs provisions comparable to 
those contained in the corresponding TSCA section 5(e) consent order.
    (B) [Reserved]
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), 
(g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv) (use respiratory protection or 
maintain workplace airborne concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-
weighted average of 1.0 mg/m\3\), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of 
this section.

[77 FR 24624, Apr. 25, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10413  Fluorinated dialkyl ketone (generic) (P-10-135).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
fluorinated dialkyl ketone (PMN P-10-135) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(t).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 24625, Apr. 25, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10414  Polycyclic polyamine diester organometallic compound 
(generic) (P-10-358).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as iron(1 + ), 
chloro[rel-1,5-dimethyl (1R,2S,4R,5S)-9,9-dihydroxy-3-methyl-2,4-di(2-
pyridinyl-.kappa.N)-7-[(2-pyridinyl-.kappa.N)methyl]-3,7-
diazabicyclo[3.3.1]nonane-1,5-dicarboxylate-.kappa.N3,.kappa.N7]-
,chloride (1:1), (OC-6-63)-(PMN P-10-358, CAS No. 478945-46-9) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this 
section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after it has 
been completely reacted (cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), 
(a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), 
(g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j), (t), (v)(1), (v)(2), (w)(1), (w)(2), 
(x)(1), and (x)(2).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a)

[[Page 630]]

through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors 
of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of 
this section.

[77 FR 24625, Apr. 25, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10415  3H-indolium, 2-[2-[3-[2-(1,3-dihydro-1,3,3-trimethyl
-2H-indol-2-ylidene)ethylidene]-2-[(1-phenyl-1H-tetrazol-5-yl)thio]
-1-cyclohexen-1-yl]ethenyl]-1, 3, 3-trimethyl-, chloride (1:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 3H-indolium, 2-[2-
[3-[2-(1,3-dihydro-1,3,3-trimethyl-2H-indol-2-ylidene)ethylidene]-2-[(1-
phenyl-1H-tetrazol-5-yl)thio]-1-cyclohexen-1-yl]ethenyl]-1, 3, 3-
trimethyl-, chloride (1:1) (PMN P-11-128, CAS No. 440102-72-7) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(s) (10,000 kilogram (kg)).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance,
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 24625, Apr. 25, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10416  Brominated polyphenyl ether (generic) (P-11-264).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
brominated polyphenyl ether (PMN P-11-264) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted 
(cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (manufacture of the substance at a 
molecular weight greater than or equal to that described in PMN P-11-
264), Sec. 721.80 (k) (manufacture at the facility described in PMN P-
11-264 or by the process described in PMN P-11-264 (changes in 
manufacturing processes include, but are not limited to, changes in 
feedstock, reaction conditions, and/or product isolation and 
purification) unless the brominated dibenzodioxin (BDD)/brominated 
dibenzofuran (BDF) testing (EPA Test Method 8290A) required in the 
consent order is conducted at the new facility or for the new 
manufacturing method and the test results submitted to EPA within 16 
months of changing the manufacturing process or commencement of 
manufacture at a different facility; manufacture of the substance where 
levels of the fifteen BDD/BDF congeners are detected at or below the 
Levels of Quantification (LOQs) published in EPA's Dioxin test rule (40 
CFR 766.27)).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 24626, Apr. 25, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10417  Biphenyl alkyl morpholino ketone (generic) (P-11-338).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as biphenyl 
alkyl morpholino ketone (PMN P-11-338) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 631]]

    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 24626, Apr. 25, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10418  1,2-Cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, 1-butyl 2-
(phenylmethyl) ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance is identified as 1,2-
cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, 1-butyl 2-(phenylmethyl) ester (PMN P-11-
481, CAS No. 1200806-67-2) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 24626, Apr. 25, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10419  Tetrafluoroethylene chlorotrifluoroethylene copolymer
(generic) (P-11-561).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
tetrafluoroethylene chlorotrifluoroethylene copolymer (PMN P-11-561) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this 
section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after it has 
been completely reacted (cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (manufacture, processing, distribution in 
commerce, and use of PMN P-11-561 substance only as a polymer in 
automotive fuel hoses; analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum 
impurity levels of certain fluorinated impurities).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 24626, Apr. 25, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10420  Fluoropolymers (generic) (P-11-567, P-11-568, 
and P-11-569).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
fluoropolymers (PMNs P-11-567, P-11-568, and P-11-569) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do 
not apply to quantities of the PMN substances after it has been 
completely reacted (cured). These PMN substances, which have been molded 
into final articles and which are recycled into non-virgin raw material 
are again subject to the requirements of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:

[[Page 632]]

    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the 
employer must incorporate this new information, and any information on 
methods for protecting against such risk, into a Material Safety Data 
Sheet (MSDS) as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the 
time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If this 
substance is not being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the 
employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to a 
MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive this 
substance from the employer are provided a MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (analysis and reporting and limitations 
of maximum impurity levels of certain fluorinated impurities).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[77 FR 24626, Apr. 25, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10421  Mercaptoalkoxysilane (generic) (P-11-594).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
mercaptoalkoxysilane (PMN P-11-594) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 24627, Apr. 25, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10422  Phenol, 2-[[[3-(1H-imidazol-1-yl)propyl]imino]
phenylmethyl]-5-(octyloxy)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phenol, 2-[[[3-(1H-
imidazol-1-yl)propyl]imino]phenylmethyl]-5-(octyloxy)- (PMN P-11-654, 
CAS No. 1332716-20-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 24627, Apr. 25, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10423  Complex strontium aluminate, rare earth doped
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 633]]

chemical substances identified generically as complex strontium 
aluminate, rare earth doped (PMNs P-12-22, P-12-23, P-12-24, P-12-25, 
and P-12-26) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. A significant 
new use of the substance is a use other than manufacture, processing, or 
use where no more than 5 percent of particles are less than 10 microns.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 6475, Feb. 4, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10424  Benzoic acid, 4-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-, methyl.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzoic acid, 4-
(1,1-dimethylethyl)-, methyl (PMN P-12-33, CAS No. 26537-19-9) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 24627, Apr. 25, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10425  Substituted alkylamides (generic) (P-12-51
and P-12-52).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
substituted alkylamides (PMNs P-12-51 and P-12-52) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 24627, Apr. 25, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10426  1-Octadecanol, manuf. of, distn. lights, fractionation
heavies, distn. lights.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-octadecanol, 
manuf. of, distn. lights, fractionation heavies, distn. lights (PMN P-
00-535; CAS No. 243640-46-2) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j)(feedstock for esterification).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),

[[Page 634]]

(b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61140, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10427  Aminoalkanol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
aminoalkanol (PMN P-96-308) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 600).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58690, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10428  Fatty acids, C [bdi1][bdi8]-unsatd., dimers, reaction
products with 1-piperazineethanamine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as fatty acids, 
C<INF>18</INF>-unsatd., dimers, reaction products with 1-
piperazineethanamine (PMN P-96-1021; CAS No. 206565-90-4) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58690, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10429  Fatty acids, C [bdi1][bdi8]-unsatd., dimers, reaction
products with 1-piperazineethanamine and tall-oil fatty acids.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as fatty acids, 
C<INF>18</INF>-unsatd., dimers, reaction products with 1-
piperazineethanamine and tall-oil fatty acids (PMN P-96-1022; CAS No. 
206565-89-1) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58690, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10430  Tetra alkyl ammonium salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as tetra 
alkyl ammonium salt (PMN P-97-823) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 635]]

    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72(a) and (c)(2) (the following statement must be included in the 
material safety data sheet (MSDS): ``The results of an eye irritation 
test in rabbits resulted in deaths at levels of the PMN substance 
greater than 25 percent concentration'').
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (use of the substance as described in 
the PMN at concentrations less than or equal to 25 percent).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), (h), and (i) and are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58690, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10431  Phosphoric acid esters (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
phosphoric acid esters (PMNs P-98-141 and P-98-142) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 100).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58690, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10432  1,2,4,5,7,8-Hexoxonane, 3,6,9-triethyl-3,6,
9-trimethyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,2,4,5,7,8-
hexoxonane, 3,6,9-triethyl-3,6,9-trimethyl-. (PMN P-98-1028; CAS No. 
24748-23-0) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (viscosity modifier in the manufacture of 
polypropylene manufactured and supplied as a solution in at least 40 
percent mineral spirits).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58691, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10433  Cyclopentene, 1,2,3,3,4,4,5,5-octafluoro-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as cyclopentene, 
1,2,3,3,4,4,5,5-octafluoro- (PMN P-99-184; CAS No. 559-40-0) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f) and (j) (dry etching agent and chemical 
vapor deposition agent for the production of semiconductors).
    (ii) [Reserved]

[[Page 636]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58691, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10434  Cyclopentane, 1,1,2,2,3,3,4-heptafluoro-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as cyclopentane, 
1,1,2,2,3,3,4-heptafluoro- (PMN P-99-214; CAS No. 15290-77-4) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f), (j) (solvent and a cleaning and drying 
agent), and (o).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58691, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10435  Phenol, 2-(1-methyl-1-phenylethyl)-4-(1,1,3,3
-tetramethylbutyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phenol, 2-(1-methyl-
1-phenylethyl)-4-(1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutyl)- (PMN P-99-1179; CAS No. 
73936-80-8) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58691, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10436  Amine neutralized phosphated polyesters (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as amine 
neutralized phosphated polyesters (PMN P-99-1217 and P-99-1218) are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(s) (50,000 kilograms combined for the 
substances identified in PMNs P-99-1217 and P-99-1218).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58691, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10437  Sulfonic acid, linear xylene alkylate, mono,
sodium salts (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
sulfonic acid, linear xylene alkylate, mono, sodium salts (PMNs P-99-
1280, P-99-1281, and P-99-1282) are

[[Page 637]]

subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (enhanced oil recovery surfactants).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58691, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10438  Dialkyl hydroxybenzenealkanoic acid ester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as dialkyl 
hydroxybenzenealkanoic acid ester (PMN P-00-346) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58692, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10439  1,3-Dioxolan-2-one, 4-ethenyl.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,3-dioxolan-2-one, 
4-ethenyl (PMN P-00-635; CAS No. 4427-96-7) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58692, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10440  Diphosphoric acid, polymers with ethoxylated reduced 
Me esters of reduced polymd. oxidized tetrafluoroethylene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as diphosphoric acid, 
polymers with ethoxylated reduced Me esters of reduced polymd. oxidized 
tetrafluoroethylene (PMN P-00-1165; CAS No. 200013-65-6) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant

[[Page 638]]

new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(o) and (y)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58692, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10441  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, di-C [bdi7]-[bdi1][bdi4]
-branched and linear alkyl esters.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,2-
benzenedicarboxylic acid, di-C<INF>7-14</INF>-branched and linear alkyl 
esters (PMN P-01-382; CAS No. 309934-68-7) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(o) (use as plasticizers for flexible polyvinyl 
chloride not to include children's toys (e.g., pacifiers, rattles, and 
teethers)).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58692, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10442  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, di-C [bdi6]-[bdi1][bdi4]
-branched and linear alkyl esters.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,2-
benzenedicarboxylic acid, di-C<INF>6-14</INF>-branched and linear alkyl 
esters (PMN P-01-383; CAS No. 309934-69-8) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(o) (use as plasticizers for flexible polyvinyl 
chloride not to include children's toys (e.g., pacifiers, rattles, and 
teethers)).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58692, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10443  Ethoxylated alkylphenol sulfate, ammonium salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
ethoxylated alkylphenol sulfate, ammonium salt (PMN P-01-470) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (manufacture and import of the PMN 
substance according to the chemical composition section of the consent 
order where the substance must have either a mean number of moles of 
ethoxy groups greater than or equal to 10, or the average number 
molecular weight is greater than 950 daltons).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 639]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58692, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10444  Propanol, mercapto-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as propanol, mercapto- 
(PMN P-01-499; CAS No. 63947-56-8) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 11).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58692, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10445  2-Propen-1-ol, reaction products with hydrogen
sulfide, distn. residues.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propen-1-ol, 
reaction products with hydrogen sulfide, distn. residues (PMN P-01-500; 
CAS No. 374078-75-8) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58693, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10446  1, 9-Cyclohexadecadiene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,9-
cyclohexadecadiene (PMN P-01-762; CAS No. 4277-06-9) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58693, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10447  17-Oxabicyclo[14.1.0]heptadec-8-ene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 17-
oxabicyclo[14.1.0]heptadec-8-ene (PMN P-01-829; CAS No. 34748-97-5) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the

[[Page 640]]

significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4) (National Institute for Occupational Safety 
and Health (NIOSH)-certified air purifying respirator equipped with a 
high efficiency particulate filter including disposable cartridge), 
(a)(5)(vii), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirement as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58693, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10448  Acetic acid, hydroxy- methoxy-, methylester, reaction
products with substituted alkylamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as acetic 
acid, hydroxymethoxy-, methyl ester, reaction products with substituted 
alkylamine (PMN P-02-120) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (manufacture and import of the PMN 
substance according to the average number molecular weight section of 
the consent order where the average molecular weight is greater than or 
equal to 850 daltons).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58693, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10449  Aromatic polyester polyol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as aromatic 
polyester polyol (PMN P-02-172) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 40).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58693, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10450  Oxirane, 2-[[3-(trimethoxysilyl)propoxy]methyl]-, 
reaction products with wollastonite (Ca(SiO [bdi3])).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as oxirane, 2-[[3-
(trimethoxysilyl)propoxy]methyl]-, reaction products with wollastonite 
(Ca(SiO<INF>3</INF>)) (PMN P-02-285; CAS No. 100402-91-3) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (manufacture and process the PMN substance 
with an average number aspect ratio no greater than 5, and no more than 
15 percent of

[[Page 641]]

the PMN substance shall have an aspect ratio greater than 10).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58694, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10451  Alkyd amide polyol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkyd 
amide polyol (PMN P-02-436) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 3).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58694, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10452  9-Octadecenoic acid (9Z)-, 1,1'-(dimethylstannylene)
ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 9-octadecenoic acid 
(9Z)-, 1,1'-(dimethylstannylene) ester (PMN P-02-659; CAS No. 3865-34-7) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58694, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10453  Polyglycerin alkyl ether (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyglycerin alkyl ether (PMN P-02-796) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58694, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10454  Propoxylated ethoxylated alkylamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
propoxylated ethoxylated alkylamine (PMN P-02-828) is subject

[[Page 642]]

to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 80).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58694, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10455  Oxirane, 2,2',2''-[ethylidynetris
(4,1-phenyleneoxymethylene)]tris-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as oxirane, 2,2',2''-
[ethylidynetris(4,1-phenyleneoxymethylene)]tris- (PMN P-03-61; CAS No. 
87093-13-8) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(y)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58694, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10456  Tristyryl phenol alkoxylate salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
tristyryl phenol alkoxylate salt (PMN P-03-104) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58695, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10457  1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, mixed esters with
benzyl alc., cyclohexanol, 2-ethyl-1-hexanol, fumaric acid and
propylene glycol.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,2-
benzenedicarboxylic acid, mixed esters with benzyl alc., cyclohexanol, 
2-ethyl-1-hexanol, fumaric acid and propylene glycol (PMN P-03-154; CAS 
No. 464920-01-2) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.

[[Page 643]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58695, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10458  Acrylate of hydroxyimide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as acrylate 
of hydroxyimide (PMN P-03-238) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(v)(2), (w)(2), and (x)(2).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 20).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58695, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10459  Amino-substituted carbopolycycle (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as amino-
substituted carbopolycycle (PMN P-03-282) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4) (respirators must provide a 
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned 
protection factor of at least 50), (a)(6), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c). Best's Viton model 878, Best's Butyl model 878, 
Barrier Laminated Film, and PVA Supported Polyvinyl Alcohol have been 
demonstrated to satisfy the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(3)(i). Other 
demonstrated impervious gloves that satisfy Sec. 721.63(a)(3)(i) are 
permissible. The following respirators meet the minimum requirements of 
Sec. 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting, half-
face respirator equipment with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or 
P100 filters; NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters; 
NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a loose-
fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters; NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with 
a tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters; or NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(vii), and (g)(2).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(f) and (j).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58695, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10460  Azo nickel complex (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as azo 
nickel complex (PMN P-03-307) is subject to reporting under this

[[Page 644]]

section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58696, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10461  Oxazolidine, 3,3'-methylenebis[5-methyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as oxazolidine, 3,3'-
methylenebis[5-methyl- (PMN P-03-325; CAS No. 66204-44-2) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (metalworking fluid).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 40 (saltwater) and N = 100 
(freshwater)).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58696, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10462  1-Penten-3-one, 1-(4-chlorophenyl)-4,4-dimethyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-penten-3-one, 1-
(4-chlorophenyl)-4,4-dimethyl- (PMN P-03-354; CAS No. 1577-03-3) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 30).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58696, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10463  Fatty acid amides (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fatty 
acid amides (PMN P-03-388) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[[Page 645]]

    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58696, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10464  Fatty acid, reaction products with alkanolamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fatty 
acid, reaction products with alkanolamine (PMN P-03-461) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58696, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10465  2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 3-hydroxytricyclo
[3.3.1.13,7]dec-1-yl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenoic acid, 2-
methyl-, 3-hydroxytricyclo[3.3.1.13,7]dec-1-yl ester (PMN P-03-561; CAS 
No. 115372-36-6) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4) (National Institute 
for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirator with an 
assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), 
(a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 3).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) and (k) and are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58696, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10466  2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-ethyltricyclo
[3.3.1.13,7]dec-2-yl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenoic acid, 2-
methyl-, 2-ethyltricyclo[3.3.1.13,7]dec-2-yl ester (PMN P-03-563; CAS 
No. 209982-56-9) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4) (National Institute 
for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirator with an 
assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), 
(a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 3).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) and (k) and are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58697, Sept. 21, 2012]

[[Page 646]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10467  2-Propenoic acid, 3-hydroxytricyclo[3.3.1.13,7]
dec-1-yl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenoic acid, 3-
hydroxytricyclo[3.3.1.13,7]dec-1-yl ester (PMN P-03-564; CAS No. 216581-
76-9) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4) (National Institute 
for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirator with an 
assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), 
(a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 3).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) and (k) and are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58697, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10468  2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyltricyclo[3.3.1.13,7]
dec-2-yl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenoic acid, 2-
methyltricyclo[3.3.1.13,7]dec-2-yl ester (PMN P-03-565; CAS No. 249562-
06-9) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4) (National Institute 
for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirator with an 
assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), 
(a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 3).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) and (k) and are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58697, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10469  2-Propenoic acid, 2-ethyltricyclo[3.3.1.13,7]
dec-2-yl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenoic acid, 2-
ethyltricyclo[3.3.1.13,7]dec-2-yl ester (PMN P-03-566; CAS No. 303186-
14-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4) (National Institute 
for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirator with an 
assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), 
(a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 3).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) and (k) and are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58697, Sept. 21, 2012]

[[Page 647]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10470  Phosphonium, tetrabutyl-, 1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,4-
nonafluoro-1-butanesulfonate (1:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phosphonium, 
tetrabutyl-, 1,1,2,2,3,3,4,4,4-nonafluoro-1-butanesulfonate (1:1) (PMN 
P-03-567; CAS No. 220689-12-3) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58697, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10471  2-Propenoic acid, 1,1'-(3-methyl-1,5-pentanediyl) ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenoic acid, 
1,1'-(3-methyl-1,5-pentanediyl) ester (PMN P-03-622; CAS No. 64194-22-5) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f) and (j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58698, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10472  1,3-Benzenedimethanamine, polymers with epichlorohydrin
-polyethylene glycol reaction products.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,3-
benzenedimethanamine, polymers with epichlorohydrin-polyethylene glycol 
reaction products (PMN P-03-645; CAS No. 652968-34-8) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58698, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10473  1-Propanaminium, 3-amino-N-(2-carboxyethyl)-N,N-
dimethyl-, N-coco acyl derivs., inner salts.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-propanaminium, 3-
amino-N-(2-carboxyethyl)-N,N-dimethyl-, N-coco acyl derivs., inner salts 
(PMN P-03-865; CAS No. 499781-63-4) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 648]]

    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 85).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58698, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10474  Substituted amino ethane sulfonic acid salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted amino ethane sulfonic acid salt (PMN P-04-107) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58698, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10475  Hexanedioic acid, compd. with N1-(6-aminohexyl)
-N1-methyl-1,6-hexanediamine (1:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as hexanedioic acid, 
compd. with N1-(6-aminohexyl)-N1-methyl-1,6-hexanediamine (1:1) (PMN P-
04-118; CAS No. 659733-29-6) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (intermediate for polymer manufacture).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 20).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply this section.

[77 FR 58698, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10476  Oxetane, 3-(bromomethyl)-3-methyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as oxetane, 3-
(bromomethyl)-3-methyl- (PMN P-04-275; CAS No. 78385-26-9) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58698, Sept. 21, 2012]

[[Page 649]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10477  Acrylate ester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as acrylate 
ester (PMN P-04-290) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58699, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10478  Polyether polyol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyether polyol (PMN P-04-318) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (intermediate for making urethane polymer).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 30).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58699, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10479  Quaternary ammonium compounds, tris(hydrogenated
tallow alkyl)methyl, chlorides.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as quaternary ammonium 
compounds, tris(hydrogenated tallow alkyl)methyl, chlorides (PMN P-04-
335; CAS No. 308074-73-9) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58699, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10480  Trimethylolpropane polyol, aminated (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
trimethylolpropane polyol, aminated (PMN P-04-384) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 9).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 650]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58699, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10481  Siloxanes and Silicones, Me vinyl, hydroxy-terminated,
reaction products with silica.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as Siloxanes and 
Silicones, Me vinyl, hydroxy-terminated, reaction products with silica 
(PMN P-04-429; CAS No. 630106-01-3) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58699, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10482  Siloxanes and Silicones, di-Me, Me vinyl, hydroxy-
terminated, reaction products with silica.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as Siloxanes and 
Silicones, di-Me, Me vinyl, hydroxy-terminated, reaction products with 
silica (PMN P-04-430; CAS No. 630106-00-2) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58699, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10483  Siloxanes and Silicones, di-Me, Me vinyl, hydroxy-
terminated, reaction products with [(ethenyldimethylsilyl)oxy]-
modified silica.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as Siloxanes and 
Silicones, di-Me, Me vinyl, hydroxy-terminated, reaction products with 
[(ethenyldimethylsilyl)oxy]-modified silica (PMN P-04-431; CAS No. 
630106-04-6) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58700, Sept. 21, 2012]

[[Page 651]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10484  Siloxanes and Silicones, Me vinyl, hydroxy-terminated,
reaction products with [(ethenyldimethylsilyl)oxy]-modified silica.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as Siloxanes and 
Silicones, Me vinyl, hydroxy-terminated, reaction products with 
[(ethenyldimethylsilyl)oxy]-modified silica (PMN P-04-432; CAS No. 
630106-02-4) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58700, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10485  Reaction products of alcohols, alkyl alcohols, amino
alcohols and methanol sodium salts (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as reaction 
products of alcohols, alkyl alcohols, amino alcohols and methanol sodium 
salts (PMN P-04-479) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58700, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10486  Alkyl substituted amino-benzamide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkyl 
substituted amino-benzamide (PMN P-04-591) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (acetaldehyde scavenger for plastic bottle 
production).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58700, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10487  Alkylbenzenes sulfonic acids, metal salts (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
alkylbenzenes sulfonic acids, metal salts (PMNs P-04-599, P-04-600, P-
04-605, and P-04-606) are subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 652]]

    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58700, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10488  Cuprate, [[[[[[[(sulfonaphthalenyl)]azo]- 
(substitutedphenyl)]azo]- (substitutedsulfonaphthalenyl)] azo]-
substituted phenyl-substituted heteromonocycle], sodium salts
(generic).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as cuprate, 
[[[[[[[(sulfonaphthalenyl)] azo]- (substitutedphenyl)]azo]- 
(substitutedsulfonaphthalenyl)]azo]-substituted phenyl-substituted 
heteromonocycle], sodium salts (PMN P-04-636) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(4) (National Institute for Occupational Safety and 
Health (NIOSH)-certified respirator with an assigned protection factor 
(APF) of at least 5), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b) 
(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58700, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10489  Substituted aryl sulfonium polyfluorophosphate
salts (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted aryl sulfonium polyfluorophosphate salts (PMN P-04-718) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (v)(1), (v)(2), (w)(1), (w)(2), (x)(1), and 
(x)(2).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 6).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58701, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10490  HDI biuret, hydroxyethyl methacrylate prepolymer
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as HDI 
biuret, hydroxyethyl methacrylate prepolymer (PMN P-04-834) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do 
not apply to quantities of the PMN substance that have been completely 
reacted (cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1),

[[Page 653]]

(a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). 
The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health 
(NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) 
of at least 25 meet the minimum requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): 
NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face respirator 
equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters; 
NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator 
equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters; 
NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a loose-
fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters; NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with 
a tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters; or NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (A) As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed in 
paragraph (a)(2)(i), a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose 
to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in 
the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.05 
mg/m\3\ as an 8-hour time-weighted average. Persons who wish to pursue 
NCELs as an alternative to Sec. 721.63 respirator requirements may 
request to do so under Sec. 721.30. Persons whose Sec. 721.30 requests 
to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will be required to follow 
NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the corresponding TSCA 
section 5(e) consent order.
    (B) [Reserved]
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58701, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10491  Benzenepropanal,.alpha.-methyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 
benzenepropanal,.alpha.-methyl- (PMN P-05-55; CAS No. 5445-77-2) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(h).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58701, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10492  Trisphenol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
trisphenol (PMN P-05-301) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 20).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 654]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58701, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10493  Tris-alkyl-alkoxy melamine polymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as tris-
alkyl-alkoxy melamine polymer (PMN P-05-417) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 5).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58701, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10494  Reaction product of trimethylolpropane triacrylate
and alkylene imine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as reaction 
product of trimethylolpropane triacrylate and alkylene imine (PMN P-05-
501) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 5).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58701, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10495  Metal silicate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as metal 
silicate (PMN P-05-634) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f) and (j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58701, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10496  Amino alkoxy polydimethylsiloxane, hydroxy-terminated 
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as amino 
alkoxy polydimethylsiloxane, hydroxy-terminated (PMN P-06-9) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

[[Page 655]]

    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58702, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10497  Substituted alkyl ester, hydrolysis products with
silica and substituted silane (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
substituted alkyl ester, hydrolysis products with silica and substituted 
silane (PMNs P-06-276 and P-06-279) are subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3), (a)(4), (b) (concentration 
set 1.0 percent), and (c). The following National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an 
assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 5 meet the requirements of 
Sec. 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-
face respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or 
P100 filters; NIOSH-certified air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters; NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with 
a tightfitting facepiece (full-face) and HEPA filters; or NIOSH-
certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or 
continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or tight-
fitting facepiece (full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (j), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58702, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10498  Substituted alkyl ester, hydrolysis products with
silica (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
substituted alkyl ester, hydrolysis products with silica (PMNs P-06-277 
and P-06-280) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3), (a)(4), (b) (concentration 
set at 1.0 percent), and (c). The following National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an 
assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 5 meet the requirements of 
Sec. 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-
face respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or 
P100 filters; NIOSH-certified air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters; NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with 
a tightfitting facepiece (full-face) and HEPA filters; or NIOSH-
certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or 
continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or tight-
fitting facepiece (full-face).

[[Page 656]]

    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (j), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58703, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10499  Substituted silane, hydrolysis products with silica
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
substituted silane, hydrolysis products with silica (PMNs P-06-278 and 
P-06-281) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3), (a)(4), (b) (concentration 
set at 1.0 percent), and (c). The following National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health NIOSH-certified respirators with an 
assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 5 meet the requirements of 
Sec. 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-
face respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or 
P100 filters; NIOSH-certified air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters; NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with 
a tight-fitting facepiece (full-face) and HEPA filters; or NIOSH-
certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or 
continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or tight-
fitting facepiece (full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (j), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58703, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10500  Acrylated mixed metal oxides (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
acrylated mixed metal oxides (PMN P-06-341) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (j), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58703, Sept. 21, 2012]

[[Page 657]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10501  Tridecyl phthalate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as tridecyl 
phthalate (PMN P-06-542) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58703, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10502  Modified triethylene glycol dithiol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as modified 
triethylene glycol dithiol (PMN P-06-616) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58703, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10503  1,2-Ethanediol, 1-carbamate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,2-ethanediol, 1-
carbamate (PMN P-06-622; CAS No. 5395-01-7) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and 
(c).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58703, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10504  Surface modified magnesium hydroxide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as surface 
modified magnesium hydroxide (PMN P-06-682) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (j) (compatibilizer for flame retardant for 
plastics) and (s) (100,000 kilograms).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a),

[[Page 658]]

(b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58704, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10505  Phosphoric acid, mixed mono- and diesters with 2-ethyl
-1-hexanol and polyethylene glycol mono-C [bdi1][bdi2]-[bdi1][bdi6]
-alkyl ethers.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phosphoric acid, 
mixed mono- and diesters with 2-ethyl-1-hexanol and polyethylene glycol 
mono-C<INF>12-16</INF>-alkyl ethers (PMN P-06-694; CAS No. 882693-50-7) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (j) and (s) (75,000 kilograms).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58704, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10506  Alkylated phenols (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
alkylated phenols (PMNs P-07-11 and P-08-29) are subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58704, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10507  Biphenyl substituted benzopyran (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as biphenyl 
substituted benzopyran (PMN P-07-107) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58704, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10508  Alkene substituted Bis phenol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkene 
substituted bis phenol (PMN P-07-161) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.

[[Page 659]]

    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58704, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10509  Pentane, 1,1,1,2,3,3-hexafluoro-4-(1,1,2,3,3,3-
hexafluoropropoxy)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as pentane, 
1,1,1,2,3,3-hexafluoro-4-(1,1,2,3,3,3-hexafluoropropoxy)- (PMN P-07-204; 
CAS No. 870778-34-0) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b)(concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use of the 
substance other than for the specific confidential industrial solvent 
uses identified in the amended premanufacture notice (PMN).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (e), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[80 FR 12087, Mar. 6, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10510  Alkylaminoalcohol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkylaminoalcohol (PMN P-07-319) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58705, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10511  Quaternary ammonium salts (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
quaternary ammonium salts (PMNs P-07-320, P-07-321, P-07-322, P-07-323, 
and P-07-324) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a),

[[Page 660]]

(b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 58705, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10512  Fatty acid maleic acid amides (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as fatty 
acid maleic acid amides (PMNs P-07-563 and P-07-564) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58705, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10513  Aromatic acrylate monomer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as aromatic 
acrylate monomer (PMN P-07-599) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58705, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10514  [1,1'-Biphenyl]-2,2'-disulfonic acid, 4-[2-
(4,5-dihydro-3-methyl-5-oxo-1-phenyl-1H-pyrazol-4-yl)diazenyl]
-4'-[2-(2-hydroxy-1-naphthalenyl)diazenyl]-, sodium salt (1:2).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as [1,1'-Biphenyl]-
2,2'-disulfonic acid, 4-[2-(4,5-dihydro-3-methyl-5-oxo-1-phenyl-1H-
pyrazol-4-yl)diazenyl]-4'-[2-(2-hydroxy-1-naphthalenyl)diazenyl]-, 
sodium salt (1:2) (PMN P-07-679; CAS No. 6470-20-8) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (v)(2), and (x)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 58705, Sept. 21, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10515  Partially fluorinated alcohol substituted glycols
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
partially fluorinated alcohol substituted glycols (PMNs P-10-58, P-10-
59, P-10-60, and P-10-184) are subject to reporting under this section 
for the

[[Page 661]]

significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (manufacture of the PMN substances 
according to the chemical synthesis and composition section of the TSCA 
section 5(e) consent order, including analysis, reporting, and 
limitations of maximum impurity levels of certain fluorinated 
impurities; manufacture and import of P-10-60 and P-10-184 other than 
when the mean number of moles of the ethoxy group is between 3 and 11 or 
the average number molecular weight is between 496 and 848 daltons based 
on the amounts of raw materials charged to the reactor; manufacture and 
import of P-10-58 and P-10-59 only as intermediates for the manufacture 
of P-10-60), and (q).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances, except the recordkeeping 
requirements for Sec. 721.125(b) and (c) do not apply to importers or 
processors when any one of the substances are contained in a formulation 
at less than 3 weight percent.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[78 FR 55635, Sept. 11, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 70175, Nov. 13, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10516  Perfluorinated alkylthio betaine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
perfluorinated alkylthio betaine (PMN P-10-405) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the company becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the 
employer must incorporate this new information, and any information on 
methods for protecting against such risk, into a Material Safety Data 
Sheet (MSDS) as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the 
time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If this 
substance is not being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the 
employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to a 
MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive this 
substance from the employer are provided a MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (analysis, reporting, and limitation of 
maximum impurity levels of certain fluorinated impurities as described 
in the chemical composition section of the consent order), (q), and (t).
    (iii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85(a)(1).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(b)(4) and (c)(4) (N = 50 for the specific release waste streams 
specified in the consent order).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), (i), (j), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.

[[Page 662]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) 
and (iv) of this section.

[77 FR 48872, Aug. 15, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10517  Alkyl methacrylates, polymer with substituted 
carbomonocycle,hydroxymethyl acrylamide and fluorinatedalkyl
acrylate (generic).


    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkyl 
methacrylates, polymer with substituted carbomonocycle, hydroxymethyl 
acrylamide and fluorinatedalkyl acrylate (PMN P-10-485) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the 
employer must incorporate this new information, and any information on 
methods for protecting against such risk, into a Material Safety Data 
Sheet (MSDS) as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the 
time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If this 
substance is not being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the 
employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to a 
MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive this 
substance from the employer are provided a MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (Monitoring of the effluent waste water 
stream during manufacture in addition to any existing NPDES permit. 
Monitoring data will be collected on the confidential analytes and 
submitted to the Agency quarterly. Analysis, reporting, and limitation 
of maximum impurity levels of certain fluorinated impurities.).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[77 FR 48873, Aug. 15, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10518  Diethylene glycol, polymer with diisocyanatoalkane,
polyethylene glycol monomethyl ether- and fluorinatedalkanol-blocked 
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
diethylene glycol, polymer with diisocyanatoalkane, polyethylene glycol 
monomethyl ether- and fluorinatedalkanol-blocked (PMN P-11-48) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to

[[Page 663]]

human health, the employer must incorporate this new information, and 
any information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a 
Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 
90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information. 
If this substance is not being manufactured, imported, processed, or 
used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add the new 
information to a MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the 
workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive this 
substance from the employer are provided a MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (Monitoring of the effluent waste water 
stream during manufacture in addition to any existing NPDES permit. 
Monitoring data will be collected on the confidential analytes and 
submitted to the Agency quarterly. Analysis, reporting, and limitation 
of maximum impurity levels of certain fluorinated impurities.).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[77 FR 48873, Aug. 15, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10519  Perfluoroalkyl acrylate copolymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
perfluoroalkyl acrylate copolymer (PMN P-11-63) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the 
employer must incorporate this new information, and any information on 
methods for protecting against such risk, into a Material Safety Data 
Sheet (MSDS) as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the 
time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If this 
substance is not being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the 
employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to a 
MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive this 
substance from the employer are provided a MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (analysis and reporting and limitations 
of maximum impurity levels of certain fluorinated impurities), (o)(use 
in a consumer product that could be spray applied), and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of

[[Page 664]]

Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.

[77 FR 48873, Aug. 15, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10520  Acetylated fatty acid glycerides (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
acetylated fatty acid glycerides (PMN P-11-160) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted 
(cured) or entrained in a film.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 48873, Aug. 15, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10521  Fluorosurfactant (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
fluorosurfactant (PMN P-11-181) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the 
employer must incorporate this new information, and any information on 
methods for protecting against such risk, into a Material Safety Data 
Sheet (MSDS) as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the 
time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If this 
substance is not being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the 
employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to a 
MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive this 
substance from the employer are provided a MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (manufacture of the PMN substance 
according to the chemical composition section of the consent order, 
including analyzing and reporting to EPA the average number molecular 
weight at each manufacturing facility at the time of initial 
commencement and annually thereafter, and where the mean number of moles 
of each PPO unit must be greater than or equal to 5) and (t).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[77 FR 48874, Aug. 15, 2012]

[[Page 665]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10522  Perfluoroalkylethyl methacrylate copolymer
with dialkylaminoethylmethacrylate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
perfluoroalkylethyl methacrylate copolymer with 
dialkylaminoethylmethacrylate (PMN P-11-203) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the 
employer must incorporate this new information, and any information on 
methods for protecting against such risk, into a Material Safety Data 
Sheet (MSDS) as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the 
time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If this 
substance is not being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the 
employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to a 
MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive this 
substance from the employer are provided a MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (any amount after September 30, 2014).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[77 FR 48874, Aug. 15, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10523  Perfluoroalkylethyl methacrylate copolymer
with hydroxymethyl acrylamide, vinyl chloride and long chain 
fatty alkyl acrylate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
perfluoroalkylethyl methacrylate copolymer with hydroxymethyl 
acrylamide, vinyl chloride and long chain fatty alkyl acrylate (PMN P-
11-247) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the 
employer must incorporate this new information, and any information on 
methods for protecting against such risk, into a Material Safety Data 
Sheet (MSDS) as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the 
time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If this 
substance is not being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the 
employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to a 
MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive this 
substance from the employer are provided a MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) containing the information required under

[[Page 666]]

paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the 
employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (any amount after March 31, 2015).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[77 FR 48875, Aug. 15, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10524  Fluorinated alkylsulfonamidol urethane polymer
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
fluorinated alkylsulfonamidol urethane polymer (PMN P-11-384) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (production limits set at 150,000 kilograms 
and at 550,000 kilograms).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 48875, Aug. 15, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10525  Alkoxy dialkyl aminoalkanol carboxylate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as alkoxy 
dialkyl aminoalkanol carboxylate (PMNs P-11-411, P-11-412, P-11-413 and 
P-11-414) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4)(N = 17).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 48875, Aug. 15, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10526  2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-hydroxyethyl ester,
telomers with C [bdi1][bdi8]-[bdi2][bdi6]-alkyl acrylate,
1-dodecanethiol, N-(hydroxymethyl)-2-methyl-2-propenamide,
polyfluorooctyl methacrylate and vinylidene chloride, 2,2'-[1,2-
diazenediylbis(1-methylethylidene)bis[4,5-dihydro-1H-
imidazole] hydrochloride (1:2)-initiated (generic).

          
          
    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 2-
propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-hydroxyethyl ester, telomers with 
C<INF>18-26</INF>-alkyl acrylate, 1-dodecanethiol, N-(hydroxymethyl)-2-
methyl-2-propenamide, polyfluorooctyl methacrylate and vinylidene 
chloride, 2,2'-[1,2-diazenediylbis(1-methylethylidene)bis[4,5-dihydro-
1H-imidazole] hydrochloride (1:2)-initiated (PMN P-11-557) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is

[[Page 667]]

any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing associated 
with any use of this substance without providing risk notification as 
follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the 
employer must incorporate this new information, and any information on 
methods for protecting against such risk, into a Material Safety Data 
Sheet (MSDS) as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the 
time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If this 
substance is not being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the 
employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to a 
MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive this 
substance from the employer are provided a MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (Manufacture of the PMN substance 
according to the chemical composition section of the consent order, 
where the company must analyze and report certain starting raw material 
impurities, and within the maximum established levels of certain 
fluorinated impurities of the PMN substances), (j) (use in a consumer 
product that could be spray applied), and (t).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[77 FR 48875, Aug. 15, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10527  Perfluoroalkylethyl methacrylate copolymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
perfluoroalkylethyl methacrylate copolymer (PMN P-11-646) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the 
employer must incorporate this new information, and any information on 
methods for protecting against such risk, into a Material Safety Data 
Sheet (MSDS) as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the 
time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If this 
substance is not being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the 
employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to a 
MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive this 
substance from the employer are provided a MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (any amount after March 31, 2015).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a),

[[Page 668]]

(b), (c), (f), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[77 FR 48876, Aug. 15, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10528  Modified fluorinated acrylates (generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
modified fluorinated acrylates (PMNs P-12-30, P-12-31, and P-12-32) are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the 
employer must incorporate this new information, and any information on 
methods for protecting against such risk, into a Material Safety Data 
Sheet (MSDS) as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the 
time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If this 
substance is not being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the 
employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to a 
MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive this 
substance from the employer are provided a MSDS as described in Sec. 
721.72(c) containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (Monitoring of the effluent waste water 
stream during manufacture in addition to the existing NPDES permit. 
Monitoring data will be collected on the confidential analytes and 
submitted to the Agency quarterly. Analysis, reporting, and limitation 
of maximum impurity levels of certain fluorinated impurities.).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[77 FR 48876, Aug. 15, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10529  Cobalt iron manganese oxide, carboxylic acid-modified
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as cobalt 
iron manganese oxide, carboxylic acid-modified (PMN P-12-35) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72(c) and (g) (do not release to water).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(f), (j) (ferrite dispersion ink additive to 
ensure magnetic performance characteristics), (o), (v)(2), and (x)(2).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 669]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 48877, Aug. 15, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10530  Acrylate manufacture byproduct distillation residue
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance is identified generically as 
acrylate manufacture byproduct distillation residue (PMN P-12-87) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance,
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 48877, Aug. 15, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10531  Distillation bottoms from manufacture of brominated
cycloalkanes (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
distillation bottoms from manufacture of brominated cycloalkanes (PMN P-
12-149) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 48877, Aug. 15, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10532  Tar, brown coal.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as tar, brown coal (PMN 
P-12-167, CAS No. 101316-83-0) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Record keeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 48877, Aug. 15, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10533  Amine-modified urea-formaldehyde polymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as amine-
modified urea-formaldehyde polymer (PMN P-12-182) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 56).
    (ii) [Reserved]

[[Page 670]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 48877, Aug. 15, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10534  Brominated aliphatic alcohol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
brominated aliphatic alcohol (PMN P-12-260) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 3).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 48877, Aug. 15, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10535  Phosphonium, tributyltetradecyl-, chloride (1:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phosphonium, 
tributyltetradecyl-, chloride (1:1) (PMN P-12-275; CAS No. 81741-28-8) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Record keeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 48877, Aug. 15, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10536  Long-chain perfluoroalkyl carboxylate chemical 
substances.

    (a) Definitions. The definitions in Sec. 721.3 apply to this 
section. In addition, the following definition applies: Carpet means a 
finished fabric or similar product intended to be used as a floor 
covering. This definition excludes resilient floor coverings such as 
linoleum and vinyl tile.
    (b) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified below, where 5 < n < 
21 or 6 < m < 21, are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
    (i) CF<INF>3</INF>(CF<INF>2</INF>)<INF>n</INF>-COO-M where M = H\ + 
\ or any other group where a formal dissociation can be made;
    (ii) CF<INF>3</INF>(CF<INF>2</INF>)<INF>n</INF>-CH = CH<INF>2</INF>;
    (iii) CF<INF>3</INF>(CF<INF>2</INF>)<INF>n</INF>-C( = O)-X where X 
is any chemical moiety;
    (iv) CF<INF>3</INF>(CF<INF>2</INF>)<INF>m</INF>-CH<INF>2</INF>-X 
where X is any chemical moiety; and
    (v) CF<INF>3</INF>(CF<INF>2</INF>)<INF>m</INF>-Y-X where Y = non-S, 
non-N heteroatom and where X is any chemical moiety.
    (2) The significant new use for chemical substances identified in 
paragraph (b)(1) of this section are: Manufacture (including import) or 
processing for use as part of carpets or to treat carpets (e.g., for use 
in the carpet aftercare market), except as noted in paragraph (b)(3) of 
this section.
    (3) Manufacture (including import) or processing of the following 
two long-chain perfluoroalkyl carboxylate (LCPFAC) chemical substances 
for use as a surfactant in aftermarket carpet cleaning products shall 
not be considered a significant new use subject to reporting under this 
section:

[[Page 671]]

    (i) Phosphonic acid, perfluoro-C6-12-alkyl derivs. (CAS No. 68412-
68-0) and
    (ii) Phosphinic acid, bis(perfluoro-C6-C12-alkyl) derivs. (CAS No. 
68412-69-1).
    (c) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (c).
    (1) Revocation of certain notification exemptions. With respect to 
imports of carpets, the provisions of Sec. 721.45(f) do not apply to 
this section. A person who imports a chemical substance identified in 
this section as part of a carpet is not exempt from submitting a 
significant new use notice. The other provision of Sec. 721.45(f), 
respecting processing a chemical substance as part of an article, 
remains applicable.
    (2) [Reserved]

[78 FR 62451, Oct. 22, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10537  Acrylate ester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as acrylate 
ester (PMN P-01-579) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 50).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61140, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10538  Phosphonium, tetrakis(hydroxymethyl)-, chloride (1:1),
reaction products with 1-tetradecanamine and urea.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phosphonium, 
tetrakis(hydroxymethyl)-, chloride (1:1), reaction products with 1-
tetradecanamine and urea (PMN P-02-161; CAS No. 359406-89-6) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61140, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10539  Bis[phenyl-2H-1,3-benzoxazine]derivative (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
bis[phenyl-2H-1,3-benzoxazine]derivative (PMN P-02-653) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61140, Oct. 5, 2012]

[[Page 672]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10540  1,3-Benzenedimethanamine, N-(2-phenylethyl) derivs.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,3-
benzenedimethanamine, N-(2-phenylethyl) derivs. (PMN P-02-984; CAS No. 
404362-22-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 5).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61140, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10541  5,2,6-(Iminomethenimino)-1H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine,
octahydro-1,3,4,7,8,10-hexanitro-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 5,2,6-
(iminomethenimino)-1H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine, octahydro-1,3,4,7,8,10-
hexanitro- (PMN P-03-481; CAS No. 135285-90-4) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (b)(concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c). The following respirator meets the requirements of 
Sec. 721.63(a)(4): a National Institute for Occupational Safety and 
Health (NIOSH)-certified air purifying respirator with a particulate 
P100 vapor cartridge or canister.
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(2)(v), (b)(2)(v), and (c)(2)(v).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61140, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10542  Dodecanedioic acid, 1,12-dimethyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as dodecanedioic acid, 
1,12-dimethyl ester (PMN P-03-624; CAS No. 1731-79-9) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 30).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61141, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10543  Oxetane, 3-methyl-3-[(2,2,3,3,3-pentafluoropropoxy)
methyl]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as oxetane, 3-methyl-3-
[(2,2,3,3,3-pentafluoropropoxy)methyl]- (PMN P-04-79; CAS No. 449177-94-
0) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1),

[[Page 673]]

(a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b)(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61141, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10544  Oxetane, 3-methyl-3-[[(3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6
-nonafluorohexyl)oxy]methyl]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as oxetane, 3-methyl-3-
[[(3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-nonafluorohexyl)oxy]methyl]- (PMN P-04-80; CAS No. 
475678-78-5) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The 
requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN after it 
has been completely reacted (cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (b)(concentration set at 
0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e)(concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), 
(g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(ii), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are 
applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this 
substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to (a)(2)(iii) of this 
section.

[77 FR 61141, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10545  Aminotriazine modified cresol novolec resin (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
aminotriazine modified cresol novolec resin (PMN P-04-313) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61141, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10546  Pentenylated polyethylene glycol sulfate salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
pentenylated polyethylene glycol sulfate salt (PMN P-04-340) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 674]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61141, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10547  Dialkyl dimethyl ammonium methylcarbonate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as dialkyl 
dimethyl ammonium methylcarbonate (PMN P-04-587) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61141, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10548  Mixed alkyl phosphate esters alkoxylated (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as mixed 
alkyl phosphate esters alkoxylated (PMN P-04-624) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 40).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61142, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10549  Ethane, 1,1,2,2-tetrafluoro-1-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as ethane, 1,1,2,2-
tetrafluoro-1-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)- (PMN P-04-635; CAS No. 406-78-0) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (j)(cleaning electronic components; 
precision cleaning; dewatering of electronic components and other parts 
following aqueous cleaning; and carrier/lubricant coating for hard disk 
drives and other precision parts), and (l).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61142, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10550  Rare earth salt of a carboxylic acid (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as rare 
earth salt of a carboxylic acid (PMN P-05-324) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.

[[Page 675]]

    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 5).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to (a)(2)(i) of this 
section.

[77 FR 61142, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10551  Bisphenol S mono ether (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
bisphenol S mono ether (PMN P-05-613) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f) and (j).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(b)(4) and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to (a)(2)(i) of this 
section.

[77 FR 61142, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10552  Oxirane, 2-(1-chlorocyclopropyl)-2-[(2-chlorophenyl)
methyl]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as oxirane, 2-(1-
chlorocyclopropyl)-2-[(2-chlorophenyl)methyl]- (PMN P-05-774; CAS No. 
134818-68-1) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b)(concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(h).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61142, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10553  Potassium titanium oxide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as potassium titanium 
oxide (PMN P-06-149; CAS No. 12673-69-7) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance that have been completely reacted 
(cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4) and (a)(6)(i). The following National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and

[[Page 676]]

Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned protection factor 
(APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose- fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters.
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters.
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (1) As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a 
manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow the new 
chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 1.5 mg/m\3\. Persons 
who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to the Sec. 721.63 
respirator requirements may request to do so under 40 CFR 721.30. 
Persons whose Sec. 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are 
approved by EPA will receive NCELs provisions comparable to those 
contained in the corresponding section 5(e) consent order.
    (2) [Reserved]
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(ii), 
(g)(2)(iv)(use respiratory protection or maintain workplace airborne 
concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-weighted average of 1.5 mg/
m\3\), and (a)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (k)(manufacture of the substance with a 
particle size of at least 100 nanometers).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61142, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10554  Iso-tridecanol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as iso-
tridecanol (PMN P-06-153) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (manufacture of the PMN substance with no 
greater than an average of three branches per alkyl unit, and routine 
analysis of representative samples for compliance with the chemical 
composition section of the consent order).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61143, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10555  Benzoic acid nonyl ester, branched and linear.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzoic acid nonyl 
ester, branched and linear (PMN P-06-370; CAS No. 670241-72-2) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1),

[[Page 677]]

(a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b)(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(b)(4) and (c)(4) (N = 6).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61143, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10556  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.- (2-methyl-2-propen-
1-yl) -.omega.-hydroxy-,C [bdi1][bdi2]-[bdi1][bdi5]-alkyl ethers.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as poly(oxy-1,2-
ethanediyl), .alpha.- (2-methyl-2-propen-1-yl) -.omega.-hydroxy-
,C<INF>12-15</INF>-alkyl ethers (PMN P-06-450; CAS No. 675869-02-0) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(s)(45,000 kilograms cumulative production 
volume of: Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.- (2-methyl-2-propen-1-yl) 
-.omega.-hydroxy-,C<INF>12-15</INF>-alkyl ethers (PMN P-06-450; CAS No. 
675869-02-00); Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.- (2-methyl-2-propen-1-
yl) -.omega.-hydroxy-,C<INF>10-16</INF>-alkyl ethers (PMN P-06-451; CAS 
No. 620610-66-4); and Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.- (2-methyl-2-
propen-1-yl) -.omega.-hydroxy-,C<INF>12-16</INF>-alkyl ethers (PMN P-06-
452; CAS No. 675869-05-3)).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61143, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10557  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.- (2-methyl-2-
propen-1-yl) -.omega.-hydroxy-,C [bdi1][bdi0]-[bdi1][bdi6]-alkyl 
ethers.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as poly(oxy-1,2-
ethanediyl), .alpha.- (2-methyl-2-propen-1-yl) -.omega.-hydroxy-
,C<INF>10-16</INF>-alkyl ethers (PMN P-06-451; CAS No. 620610-66-4) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(s)(45,000 kilograms cumulative production 
volume of: Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.- (2-methyl-2-propen-1-yl) 
-.omega.-hydroxy-,C<INF>12-15</INF>-alkyl ethers (PMN P-06-450; CAS No. 
675869-02-00); Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.- (2-methyl-2-propen-1-
yl) -.omega.-hydroxy-,C<INF>10-16</INF>-alkyl ethers (PMN P-06-451; CAS 
No. 620610-66-4); and Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.- (2-methyl-2-
propen-1-yl) -.omega.-hydroxy-,C<INF>12-16</INF>-alkyl ethers (PMN P-06-
452; CAS No. 675869-05-3)).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61144, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10558  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.- (2-methyl-2-propen-
1-yl) -.omega.-hydroxy-,C [bdi1][bdi2]-[bdi1][bdi6]-alkyl ethers.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 678]]

chemical substance identified as poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.- (2-
methyl-2-propen-1-yl) -.omega.-hydroxy-,C<INF>12-16</INF>-alkyl ethers 
(PMN P-06-452; CAS No. 675869-05-3) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(s)(45,000 kilograms cumulative production 
volume of: Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.- (2-methyl-2-propen-1-yl) 
-.omega.-hydroxy-,C<INF>12-15</INF>-alkyl ethers (PMN P-06-450; CAS No. 
675869-02-00); Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.- (2-methyl-2-propen-1-
yl) -.omega.-hydroxy-,C<INF>10-16</INF>-alkyl ethers (PMN P-06-451; CAS 
No. 620610-66-4); and Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.- (2-methyl-2-
propen-1-yl) -.omega.-hydroxy-,C<INF>12-16</INF>-alkyl ethers (PMN P-06-
452; CAS No. 675869-05-3)).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61144, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10559  Morpholine, 4-C [bdi6]-[bdi1][bdi2] acyl derivs.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as morpholine, 4-
C<INF>6-12</INF> acyl derivs. (PMN P-06-793; CAS No. 887947-29-7) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b)(concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e)(concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(systemic effects), (g)(2)(i), and (g)(2)(v).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (h) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61144, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10560  Alkanoldioic dialkyl esters (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
alkanoldioic dialkyl esters (PMNs P-07-143 and P-07-144) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to (a)(2)(i) of this 
section.

[77 FR 61144, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10561  Substituted phenol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted phenol (PMN P-07-327) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 679]]

    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified as Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and 
(g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified as Sec. 721.80(q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified as Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to (a)(2)(ii) of this 
section.

[77 FR 61144, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10562  Aluminum trihydrate and silane homopolymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as aluminum 
trihydrate and silane homopolymer (PMN P-07-375) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(s)(100,000 kilograms).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61144, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10563  2-Oxiranemethanamine, N-[3-(2-oxiranylmethoxy)
phenyl]-N-(2-oxiranylmethyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-
oxiranemethanamine, N-[3-(2-oxiranylmethoxy)phenyl]-N-(2-
oxiranylmethyl)- (PMN P-07-496; CAS No. 71604-74-5) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b)(concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j)(preparation of pre-impregnated cloth/
fiber tapes for aerospace composite articles).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61145, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10564  Mixed amino diaryl sulfone isomers (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as mixed 
amino diaryl sulfone isomers (PMN P-08-39) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (o), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 8).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 680]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61145, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10565  Ethanol, 2,2'-[[3-[(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]
propyl]imino]bis-, N-(hydrogenated tallow alkyl) derivs.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as ethanol, 2,2'-[[3-
[(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]propyl]imino]bis-, N-(hydrogenated tallow alkyl) 
derivs. (PMN P-08-263; CAS No. 90367-25-2) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61145, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10566  1-Propanamine, N-(1-methylethyl) -,3-(C [bdi1][bdi2]
-[bdi1][bdi5]-alkyloxy) derivs.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-propanamine, N-(1-
methylethyl)-,3- (C<INF>12-15</INF>-alkyloxy) derivs (PMN P-08-292; CAS 
No. 944835-56-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61145, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10567  Amidoamine salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
amidoamine salt (PMN P-08-300) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61145, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10568  Diethanolamine salt of polymeric acid (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
diethanolamine salt of polymeric acid (PMN P-08-464) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 4).
    (ii) [Reserved]

[[Page 681]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61145, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10569  Tricyclic quaternary amine salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
tricyclic quaternary amine salt (PMN P-08-471) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 100).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61146, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10570  Cyclic amine reaction product with acetophenone
and formaldehyde acid salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as cyclic 
amine reaction product with acetophenone and formaldehyde acid salt (PMN 
P-08-537) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 8).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61146, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10571  1,3-Benzenediol, polymer with 1,1'-methylenebis
[isocyanatobenzene].

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,3-benzenediol, 
polymer with 1,1'-methylenebis[isocyanatobenzene] (PMN P-08-611; CAS No. 
1008753-84-1) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j)(manufacture with all isocyanate groups 
reacted within the polymer).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to (a)(2)(i) of this 
section.

[77 FR 61146, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10572  Benzamide, N-[[4- [(cyclopropylamino)carbonyl] 
phenyl]sulfonyl]-2-methoxy-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 682]]

chemical substance identified as benzamide, N-[[4-[(cyclopropylamino) 
carbonyl]phenyl]sulfonyl]-2-methoxy- (PMN P-08-680; CAS No. 221667-31-8) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (b)(concentration 
set at 0.1 percent), and (c). The following National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an 
assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of 
Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters.
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters.
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e)(concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(2)(v).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (h) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61146, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10573  Magnesium hydroxide surface treated with substituted
alkoxysilanes (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
magnesium hydroxide surface treated with substituted alkoxysilanes (PMN 
P-08-737) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (b)(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and 
(c). The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health 
(NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) 
of at least 10 meet the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters.
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters.
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 72l.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e)(concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(l)(ii), (g)(l)(viii), and (g)(2)(iv).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(s) (100,000 kilograms).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),

[[Page 683]]

(b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61146, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10574  Alkylcarboxy polyester acrylate reaction products 
with mixed metal oxides (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkylcarboxy polyester acrylate reaction products with mixed metal 
oxides (PMN P-09-48) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The 
requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN 
substance after it has been completely reacted (cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), and (a)(3).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iv), 
(g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(v), (g)(4)(i), (g)(4)(iii), 
and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified Sec. 721.80 (a) (if used in the form of a powder), (b) (if 
manufactured in the form of a powder), (c) (if processed in the form of 
a powder), (k) (transport to processors using only reusable tote tanks 
cleaned not more than once per year), (y)(1), and (y)(2).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 (a)(1), 
(b)(1), (c)(1), and (d)(recycling of use waste stream via polymer 
reclamation as an alternative to incineration). (All incineration shall 
be via Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) approved hazardous 
waste incineration).
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to (a)(2)(iii) of this 
section.

[77 FR 61147, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10575  1-Propanone, 1,1'-(oxydi-4,1-phenylene)bis
[2-hydroxy-2-methyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-propanone, 1,1'-
(oxydi-4,1-phenylene)bis[2-hydroxy-2-methyl- (PMN P-09-480; CAS No. 
71868-15-0) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and 
(c). The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health 
(NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) 
of at least 50 satisfy the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters.
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters.
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 72l.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5).

[[Page 684]]

    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(b)(4) and (c)(4) (N = 14).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable 
to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61147, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10576  Polyalkenyl, N,N'-bistriazole (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyalkenyl, N,N'-bistriazole (PMN P-09-486) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to (a)(2)(i) of this 
section.

[77 FR 61147, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10577  Benzenamine, 5-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-2-[(2-ethylhexyl)
thio]-,4-methylbenzenesulfonate (1:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzenamine, 5-(1,1-
dimethylethyl)-2-[(2-ethylhexyl)thio]-,4-methylbenzenesulfonate (1:1) 
(PMN P-09-636; CAS No. 852360-51-1) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities 
of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted (cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), 
(g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (h) and (p)(15,000 kilograms, 170,000 
kilograms, and 496,000 kilograms).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1) and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61148, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10578  Unsaturated polyester imide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
unsaturated polyester imide (PMN P-10-231) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 52).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 685]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61148, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10579  Carbon black derived from the pyrolysis of rubber
tire shreds (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as carbon 
black derived from the pyrolysis of rubber tire shreds (PMN P-10-367) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (k)(Manufacture of the PMN substance using 
only the process described in PMN; manufacturing, processing, or use of 
the PMN substance in compliance with the Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration (OSHA) Permissible Exposure Limit (PEL) for carbon black 
of 3.5 mg/m\3\; and manufacture of the PMN substance to meet the NIOSH 
recommended time weighted average (TWA) for polyaromatic hydrocarbons 
(PAH) in carbon black of 0.1 mg/m\3\); and (q).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to (a)(2)(i) of this 
section.

[77 FR 61148, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10580  Poly[oxy(methyl-1,2- ethanediyl)], alpha, alpha'-
[1,4- cyclohexanediylbis(methylene)]bis [omega-(2-aminomethylethoxy)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-
ethanediyl)], alpha, alpha'-[1,4-cyclohexanediylbis(methylene)]bis 
[omega-(2-aminomethylethoxy)- (PMN P-10-452; CAS No. 1220986-58-2) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 98).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61148, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10581  Brominated polyurethane prepolymers of methylene 
diphenyl diisocyanate (MDI) (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
brominated polyurethane prepolymers of methylene diphenyl diisocyanate 
(MDI) (PMNs P-10-524 and P-10-525) are subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b)(concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c). The following National Institute for Occupational 
Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned 
protection

[[Page 686]]

factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose- fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters.
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters.
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61148, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10582  Quaternary ammonium compound (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
quaternary ammonium compound (PMN P-10-571) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 47).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61149, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10583  Benzenamine, 4,4'-[1,3-phenylenebis(1-methylethylidene)]
bis-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzenamine, 4,4'-
[1,3-phenylenebis(1-methylethylidene)]bis- (PMN P-10-588; CAS No. 2687-
27-6) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b)(concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c). The following National Institute for Occupational 
Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned 
protection factor (APF) of at least 1,000 meet the requirements of Sec. 
721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters.
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters.
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 687]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61149, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10584  Cyclopentene, 1,3,3,4,4,5,5-heptafluoro-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as cyclopentene, 
1,3,3,4,4,5,5-heptafluoro- (PMN P-11-29; CAS No. 1892-03-1) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (j)(dry etching agent for production of 
semiconductors), (o), and (s) (10,000 kilograms).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61149, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10585  Disiloxane, 1-butyl-1,1,3,3-tetramethyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as disiloxane, 1-butyl-
1,1,3,3-tetramethyl- (PMN P-11-43; CAS No. 121263-51-2) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61149, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10586  Disiloxane, 1,3-dibutyl-1,1,3,3-tetramethyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as disiloxane, 1,3-
dibutyl-1,1,3,3-tetramethyl- (PMN P-11-44; CAS No. 4619-08-3) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61149, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10587  1H-Pyrazole, 3,4-dimethyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1H-pyrazole, 3,4-
dimethyl- (PMN P-11-81; CAS No. 2820-37-3) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 19).
    (ii) [Reserved]

[[Page 688]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61150, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10588  Phenol, 2-[1-[[3-(1H-imidazol-1-yl)propyl]imino]ethyl]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phenol, 2-[1-[[3-
(1H-imidazol-1-yl)propyl]imino]ethyl]- (PMN P-11-98; CAS No. 1253404-90-
8) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61150, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10589  Unsaturated fatty acids, amides with
polyethylenepolyamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
unsaturated fatty acids, amides with polyethylenepolyamine (PMN P-11-
106) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61150, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10590  Fatty acids, amides with triethylentetramine
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fatty 
acids, amides with triethylentetramine (PMN P-11-107) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61150, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10591  Tertiary ammonium compound (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as tertiary 
ammonium compound (PMN P-11-110) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 689]]

    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61150, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10592  1-Butanol, 4-amino-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-butanol, 4-amino- 
(PMN P-11-130; CAS No. 13325-10-5) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61150, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10593  5-Isobenzofurancarboxylic acid, 1,3-dihydro-1,
3-dioxo-, 2-[(2-methyl-1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)oxy]ethyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 5-
isobenzofurancarboxylic acid, 1,3-dihydro-1,3-dioxo-, 2-[(2-methyl-1-
oxo-2-propen-1-yl)oxy]ethyl ester (PMN P-11-162; CAS No. 70293-55-9) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 20).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61151, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10594  Hexanedioic acid, polymer with 2,2-dimethyl-1,3-propanediol,
1,6-hexanediol, hydrazine, 3-hydroxy-2-(hydroxymethyl)-2-methylpropanoic 
acid, 5-isocyanato-1-(isocyanatomethyl)-1,3,3-trimethylcyclohexane and 
1,1'-[(1-methylethylidene)bis(4,1-phenyleneoxy)]bis[2-
propanol], iso-Bu alc.-blocked, compds. with triethylamine.

          
    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as hexanedioic acid, 
polymer with 2,2-dimethyl-1,3-propanediol, 1,6-hexanediol, hydrazine, 3-
hydroxy-2-(hydroxymethyl)-2-methylpropanoic acid, 5-isocyanato-1-
(isocyanatomethyl)-1,3,3-trimethylcyclohexane and 1,1'-[(1-
methylethylidene)bis(4,1-phenyleneoxy)]bis[2-propanol], iso-Bu alc.-
blocked, compds. with triethylamine (PMN P-11-173; CAS No. 1138156-39-4) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 150) (Where primary, secondary, and 
tertiary waste treatment will occur, or treatment in a lined, self-
contained solar evaporation pond where ultraviolet light will degrade 
the substance, the number of kilograms per

[[Page 690]]

day per site is calculated after wastewater treatment).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61151, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10595  Octadecen-1-aminium, N-ethyl-N,N-dimethy-, ethyl
sulfate (1:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as octadecen-1-aminium, 
N-ethyl-N,N-dimethy-, ethyl sulfate (1:1) (PMN P-11-230; CAS No. 
1256282-88-8) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 4).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61151, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10596  Oligomeric phenolic ether (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
oligomeric phenolic ether (PMN P-11-234) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61151, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10597  Benzeneacetonitrile, alkoxy-[[(alkylsulfonyl)oxy]
imino]- (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
benzeneacetonitrile, alkoxy-[[(alkylsulfonyl)oxy]imino]- (PMN P-11-252) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61151, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10598  Lead strontium titanium zirconium oxide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as lead strontium 
titanium zirconium oxide (PMN P-11-270; CAS No. 61461-40-3) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

[[Page 691]]

    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), and (c). The following National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an 
assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50 meet the requirements of 
Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters.
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters.
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (piezoelectric ceramics for active and 
passive underwater acoustic systems).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (Where N = 8, and 8 is an aggregate of 
releases for the following substances: Lead strontium titanium zirconium 
oxide (PMN P-11-270; CAS No. 61461-40-3); Calcium cobalt lead titanium 
tungsten oxide (PMN P-11-271; CAS No. 1262279-31-1); Calcium cobalt lead 
strontium titanium tungsten oxide (PMN P-11-272; CAS No. 1262279-30-0); 
Lanthanum lead titanium zirconium oxide (PMN P-11-273; CAS No. 1227908-
26-0); and Lead niobium titanium zirconium oxide (PMN P-11-274; CAS No. 
56572-83-9)).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61151, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10599  Calcium cobalt lead titanium tungsten oxide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as calcium cobalt lead 
titanium tungsten oxide (PMN P-11-271; CAS No. 1262279-31-1) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), and (c). The following National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an 
assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50 meet the requirements of 
Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters.
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters.
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (piezoelectric ceramics for active and 
passive underwater acoustic systems).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (Where N = 8, and 8 is an aggregate of 
releases for the following substances: Lead strontium titanium zirconium 
oxide (PMN P-11-270; CAS No.

[[Page 692]]

61461-40-3); Calcium cobalt lead titanium tungsten oxide (PMN P-11-271; 
CAS No. 1262279-31-1); Calcium cobalt lead strontium titanium tungsten 
oxide (PMN P-11-272; CAS No. 1262279-30-0); Lanthanum lead titanium 
zirconium oxide (PMN P-11-273; CAS No. 1227908-26-0); and Lead niobium 
titanium zirconium oxide (PMN P-11-274; CAS No. 56572-83-9)).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61152, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10600  Calcium cobalt lead strontium titanium tungsten
oxide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as calcium cobalt lead 
strontium titanium tungsten oxide (PMN P-11-272; CAS No. 1262279-30-0) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), and (c). The following National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an 
assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50 meet the requirements of 
Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters.
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters.
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (piezoelectric ceramics for active and 
passive underwater acoustic systems).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (Where N = 8, and 8 is an aggregate of 
releases for the following substances: Lead strontium titanium zirconium 
oxide (PMN P-11-270; CAS No. 61461-40-3); Calcium cobalt lead titanium 
tungsten oxide (PMN P-11-271; CAS No. 1262279-31-1); Calcium cobalt lead 
strontium titanium tungsten oxide (PMN P-11-272; CAS No. 1262279-30-0); 
Lanthanum lead titanium zirconium oxide (PMN P-11-273; CAS No. 1227908-
26-0); and Lead niobium titanium zirconium oxide (PMN P-11-274; CAS No. 
56572-83-9)).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61152, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10601  Lanthanum lead titanium zirconium oxide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as lanthanum lead 
titanium zirconium oxide (PMN P-11-273; CAS No. 1227908-26-0) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), and (c). The following National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an 
assigned protection

[[Page 693]]

factor (APF) of at least 50 meet the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters.
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters.
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (piezoelectric ceramics for active and 
passive underwater acoustic systems).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (Where N = 8, and 8 is an aggregate of 
releases for the following substances: Lead strontium titanium zirconium 
oxide (PMN P-11-270; CAS No. 61461-40-3); Calcium cobalt lead titanium 
tungsten oxide (PMN P-11-271; CAS No. 1262279-31-1); Calcium cobalt lead 
strontium titanium tungsten oxide (PMN P-11-272; CAS No. 1262279-30-0); 
Lanthanum lead titanium zirconium oxide (PMN P-11-273; CAS No. 1227908-
26-0); and Lead niobium titanium zirconium oxide (PMN P-11-274; CAS No. 
56572-83-9)).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61153, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10602  Lead niobium titanium zirconium oxide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as lead niobium 
titanium zirconium oxide (PMN P-11-274; CAS No. 56572-83-9) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), and (c). The following National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an 
assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50 meet the requirements of 
Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters.
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters.
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (piezoelectric ceramics for active and 
passive underwater acoustic systems).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (Where N = 8, and 8 is an aggregate of 
releases for the following substances: Lead strontium titanium zirconium 
oxide (PMN P-11-270; CAS No. 61461-40-3); Calcium cobalt lead titanium 
tungsten oxide (PMN P-11-271; CAS No. 1262279-31-1); Calcium cobalt lead 
strontium titanium tungsten oxide (PMN P-11-272; CAS No. 1262279-30-0); 
Lanthanum lead titanium zirconium oxide (PMN P-11-273; CAS No.

[[Page 694]]

1227908-26-0); and Lead niobium titanium zirconium oxide 
(PMN P-11-274; 
CAS No. 56572-83-9)).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61153, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10603  Epoxy modified alkyd resin, partially neutralized
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as epoxy 
modified alkyd resin, partially neutralized (PMN P-11-280) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61153, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10604  Polyetherdiamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyetherdiamine (PMN P-11-447) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 4).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61153, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10605  Polyoxyalkylene ether, polymer with aliphatic 
diisocyanate, homopolymer, alkanol-blocked (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyoxyalkylene ether, polymer with aliphatic diisocyanate, homopolymer, 
alkanol-blocked (PMN P-11-485) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c). The following National Institute for Occupational 
Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned 
protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of Sec. 
721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters.
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters.

[[Page 695]]

    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (o) and (s) (10,000 kilograms).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61154, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10606  Alkyl substituted alkanediol polymer with aliphatic
and alicyclic diisocyanates (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkyl 
substituted alkanediol polymer with aliphatic and alicyclic 
diisocyanates (PMN P-11-486) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c). The following National Institute for Occupational 
Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned 
protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of Sec. 
721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters.
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters.
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (o) and (s) (10,000 kilograms).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61154, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10607  Aliphatic diisocyanate, homopolymer, alkanol-blocked
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
aliphatic diisocyanate, homopolymer, alkanol-blocked (PMN P-11-488) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c). The following National Institute for Occupational 
Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned 
protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of Sec. 
721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-

[[Page 696]]

fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters.
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters.
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o) and (s) (10,000 kilograms).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61154, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10608  Aliphatic diisocyanate polymer with alkanediol
and alkylglycol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
aliphatic diisocyanate polymer with alkanediol and alkylglycol (PMN P-
11-489) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c). The following National Institute for Occupational 
Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned 
protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of Sec. 
721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters.
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters.
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (o) and (s) (10,000 kilograms).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61154, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10609  Imidodicarbonic diamide, N,N'-dibutyl-N',2-bis
[4-[(4-isocyanatophenyl)methyl]phenyl]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as imidodicarbonic 
diamide, N,N'-dibutyl-N',2-bis[4-[(4-isocyanatophenyl)methyl]phenyl]-
(PMN P-11-548; CAS No. 1254743-03-7) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (o) and (y)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.

[[Page 697]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61155, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10610  Toluene diisocyanate, polymers with polyalkylene glycol
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as toluene 
diisocyanate, polymers with polyalkylene glycol (PMNs P-11-635 and P-11-
636) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (o) and (y)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 61155, Oct. 5, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10611  Benzoic acid, 4-[(1-oxodecyl)oxy]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzoic acid, 4-[(1-
oxodecyl)oxy]- (PMN P-11-135, CAS No. 86960-46-5) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f) and (j)
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 66159, Nov. 2, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10618  Polyaromatic organophosphorus compound (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyaromatic organophosphorus compound (PMN P-11-607) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not 
apply to quantities of the PMN substance after it has been embedded in a 
solid polymer matrix.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72(a), (b), (c). (d), (e), (f), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), and 
(g)(4)(iii).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j) and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i) and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[77 FR 66162, Nov. 2, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10619  Perfluoroalkylethyl methacrylate copolymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 698]]

chemical substance identified generically as perfluoroalkylethyl 
methacrylate copolymer (PMN P-11-653) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a Material 
Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days 
from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If this 
substance is not being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the 
employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to a 
MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance from the employer, or who have received the PMN substance from 
the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of 
the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, 
are provided an MSDS containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of 
the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(p)(any amount after September 30, 2014).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 66162, Nov. 2, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10620  Oxirane, 2,2'-(phenylene)bis-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as oxirane, 2,2'-
(phenylene)bis- (PMN P-12-191, CAS No. 30424-08-9) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j)(distribution of chemical substance with 
less than or equal to 5 percent impurities).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N= 10).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance,
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[77 FR 66163, Nov. 2, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10621  Distillation bottoms, alkylated benzene by-product
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
distillation bottoms, alkylated benzene by-product (PMN P-12-196) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to Water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N= 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 699]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 66163, Nov. 2, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10622  Copper(2 + ), tetraammine-, chloride (1:2).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as copper(2 + ), 
tetraammine-, chloride (1:2) (PMN P-12-285, CAS No. 10534-87-9) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to Water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N= 3).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 66163, Nov. 2, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10624  Dicyclohexylmethane-4,4'-diisocyanate, polymer with
ethoxylated, propoxylated polyethers (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
dicyclohexylmethane-4,4'-diisocyanate, polymer with ethoxylated, 
propoxylated polyethers (PMN P-12-326) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (manufacture, processing, or use where the 
molecular weight is 1000 daltons or more).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 66163, Nov. 2, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10625  Distillation bottoms, alkylated benzene by-product,
brominated and bromo diphenyl alkane (generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
distillation bottoms, alkylated benzene by-product, brominated and bromo 
diphenyl alkane (PMNs P-12-332 and P-12-333) are subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j)(feed for a bromine recovery unit).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 66163, Nov. 2, 2012]

[[Page 700]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10626  1,4-Butanediol, polymer with substituted alkane
and substituted methylene biscarbomonocycle, 2-hydroxyalkyl acrylate
-blocked (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 1,4-
butanediol, polymer with substituted alkane and substituted methylene 
biscarbomonocycle, 2-hydroxyalkyl acrylate-blocked (PMN P-12-373) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(o) and (y)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 66164, Nov. 2, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10627  Yttrium borate phosphate vanadate with europium and
additional dopants (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as yttrium 
borate phosphate vanadate with europium and additional dopants (PMN P-
12-430) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) and (s).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 66164, Nov. 2, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10628  Mixed metal oxalate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as mixed 
metal oxalate (PMN P-12-432) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) and (s).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[77 FR 66164, Nov. 2, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10629  Fatty acids, tall-oil, reaction products with modified
fatty acids and polyalkanolamines (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fatty 
acids, tall-oil, reaction products with modified fatty acids and 
polyalkanolamines (PMN P-09-107) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 701]]

    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 110).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 75397, Dec. 20, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10630  Amino acid, carboxyalkyl, alkylsulfonate, alkali
salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as amino 
acid, carboxyalkyl, alkylsulfonate, alkali salts (PMNs P-11-619 and P-
11-620) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 770 parts per billion (ppb) 
for the aggregate of the PMN substances, P-11-619 and P-11-620). When 
calculating the surface water concentrations according to the 
instructions in Sec. 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4), the statement 
that the amount of the substances that will be released will be 
calculated before the substances enter control technology does not 
apply. Instead, if the waste stream containing the substances will be 
treated before release, then the amount of the substances reasonably 
likely to be removed from the waste stream by such treatment may be 
subtracted in calculating the number of kilograms released. No more than 
90 percent removal efficiency may be attributed to such treatment.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 75398, Dec. 20, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10631  Mixed metal borate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as mixed 
metal borate (PMN P-12-64) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(s), (y)(1), and (y)(2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[77 FR 75398, Dec. 20, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10632  Benzamide, N-[(cyclohexylamino)thioxomethyl]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzamide, N-
[(cyclohexylamino)thioxomethyl]- (PMN P-12-181; CAS No. 4921-92-0) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N= 2).

[[Page 702]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 75398, Dec. 20, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10633  Aromatic sulfonic acid amino azo dye salts (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as aromatic 
sulfonic acid amino azo dye salts (PMN P-12-276) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4) (National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health 
(NIOSH)-certified N100 respirator with an assigned protection factor of 
at least 10), (a)(6), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(s) (10,000 kilograms).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 75398, Dec. 20, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 18527, Mar. 27, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10634  Iodonium, diphenyl-, 4,4'-di-C10-13-alkyl derivs., 
(OC-6-11)-hexafluoroantimonates(1-).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as iodonium, diphenyl-, 
4,4'-di-C10-13-alkyl derivs., (OC-6-11)-hexafluoroantimonates(1-) (PMN 
P-12-464; CAS No. 1370442-66-2) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (photoinitiator used for ultraviolet 
release coatings).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 75398, Dec. 20, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10635  Alkyl maleimide substituted bicyclic olefin (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkyl 
maleimide substituted bicyclic olefin (PMN P-12-480) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 75398, Dec. 20, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10636  Slimes and sludges, automotive coating, wastewater
treatment, solid waste.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 703]]

chemical substance identified as slimes and sludges, automotive coating, 
wastewater treatment, solid waste (PMN P-12-501; CAS No. 1392095-50-9) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[77 FR 75399, Dec. 20, 2012]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10637  Substituted picolinate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted picolinate (PMN P-00-835) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 90).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 51905, Sept. 2, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10638  Lithium metal phosphate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as lithium 
metal phosphate (PMN P-02-167) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 51906, Sept. 2, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10639  Siloxanes and Silicones, di-Me, polymers with Ph
silsesquioxanes, hydrolyzed, reaction products with 2-[[3-
(trimethoxysilyl)propoxy] methyl]oxirane.
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as siloxanes and 
silicones, di-Me, polymers with Ph silsesquioxanes, hydrolyzed, reaction 
products with 2-[[3-(trimethoxysilyl)propoxy] methyl]oxirane (PMN P-02-
668; CAS No. 478823-10-8) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration 
set at 0.1 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are 
reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) and 
(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the 
operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g.,

[[Page 704]]

workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented 
to prevent or reduce exposure, where feasible. The following National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet 
the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters;
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters; and
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 51906, Sept. 2, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10640  1,2-Cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, 1-(2-ethylhexyl)
2-(2-methylpropyl) ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,2-
cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, 1-(2-ethylhexyl) 2-(2-methylpropyl) ester 
(PMN P-03-135; CAS No. 252958-29-5) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1)
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 51906, Sept. 2, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10641  Phenol and vinyltoluene based hydrocarbon resin 
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as phenol 
and vinyltoluene based hydrocarbon resin (PMN P-03-255) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 51906, Sept. 2, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10642  Modified polyisocyanates (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
modified polyisocyanates (PMNs P-03-762 and P-03-763) are subject to 
reporting under this section for

[[Page 705]]

the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (o), and (y)(l).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers 
and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 51906, Sept. 2, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10643  Diisocyanate terminated polycarbodiimide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
diisocyanate terminated polycarbodiimide (PMN P-04-640) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do 
not apply to quantities of the PMN substance that have been completely 
reacted (cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(ii), and (b) (concentration set at 
1.0 percent). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be 
exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control 
measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and 
local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace 
policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent 
or reduce exposure, where feasible. A National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified supplied-air respirator 
operated in pressure demand or other positive pressure mode and equipped 
with a tight-fitting full facepiece with an assigned protection factor 
(APF) of at least 2,000 meets the minimum requirements of Sec. 
721.63(a)(4). As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed 
here, a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow the 
new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.05 mg/m\3\. Persons 
whose Sec. 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by 
EPA will receive NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the 
corresponding section 5(e) consent order.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(i), 
(g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv) (use respiratory protection or 
maintain airborne concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-weighted 
average of 0.05 mg/m\3\), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of 
this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 51907, Sept. 2, 2014, as amended at 79 FR 60760, Oct. 8, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10644  Reaction product of aluminum hydroxide and modified
alkoxysilane (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as reaction 
product of aluminum hydroxide and modified alkoxysilane (PMN P-07-553) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentrations set at 0.1 percent), and 
(c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed 
as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4),

[[Page 706]]

engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the 
operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent or reduce exposure, where feasible. The 
following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-
certified respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at 
least 10 meet the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose- fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters;
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters; and
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(s) (100,000 kilograms).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 51907, Sept. 2, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10645  Multi-walled carbon nanotube (generic) (P-08-0392).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as multi-
walled carbon nanotube (PMN P-08-392) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance that have been completely reacted 
(cured); incorporated or embedded into a polymer matrix that itself has 
been completely reacted (cured); or embedded in a permanent solid 
polymer form that is not intended to undergo further processing except 
for mechanical processing.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (a)(4), and (a)(6) 
(particulate, including solids or liquid droplets). When determining 
which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 
721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or 
confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or 
administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and 
procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent or reduce 
exposure, where feasible. A National Institute for Occupational Safety 
and Health (NIOSH)-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 filters with an assigned protection factor 
(APF) of at least 50 meet the minimum requirements of Sec. 
721.63(a)(4).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(f), (k), and (q) (within 18 months of 
commencing non-exempt commercial manufacture).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[79 FR 51907, Sept. 2, 2014]

[[Page 707]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10646  Multi-wall carbon nanotubes (generic) (P-09-257).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as multi-
wall carbon nanotubes (PMN P-09-257) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance that have been completely reacted 
(cured); incorporated or embedded into a polymer matrix that itself has 
been completely reacted (cured); embedded in a permanent solid polymer 
form that is not intended to undergo further processing except for 
mechanical processing; or incorporated into an article as defined at 
Sec. 721.3(c).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (a)(4), and (a)(6) 
(particulate, including solids or liquid droplets). When determining 
which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or 
confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or 
administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and 
procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent or reduce 
exposure, where feasible. A National Institute for Occupational Safety 
and Health (NIOSH)-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 filters with an assigned protection factor 
(APF) of at least 50 meets the minimum requirements of Sec. 
721.63(a)(4).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(f), (k), and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(b)(1) and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[79 FR 51908, Sept. 2, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10647  Multi-walled carbon nanofibers (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as multi-
walled carbon nanofibers (PMNs P-10-115, P-10-116, P-10-117, P-10-118, 
P-10-119, P-10-120, P-10-121, P-10-122, P-10-123, P-10-124, P-10-125, 
and P-10-126) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The 
requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN 
substances after they have been completely reacted (cured); incorporated 
or embedded into a polymer matrix that itself has been reacted (cured); 
embedded into a permanent solid polymer form that is not intended to 
undergo further processing except for mechanical processing; or 
incorporated into an article as defined at 40 CFR 720.3(c).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (a)(4), and (a)(6)(i). When 
determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as 
required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures 
(e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local 
ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace 
policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent 
or reduce exposure, where feasible. A National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified air-purifying, tight-
fitting full-face respirator equipped with N100 filters with an assigned 
protection factor (APF) of at least 50 meets the minimum requirements of 
Sec. 721.63(a)(4).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (electrical and thermal conductivity 
additive in encapsulated thermoplastics, thermosets,

[[Page 708]]

elastomers, glass, metals, and ceramics; mechanical reinforcement 
additive in encapsulated thermoplastics, thermosets, elastomers, glass, 
metals, and ceramics; energy storage additive; or chemical 
intermediate), (l), and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(b)(1) and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[79 FR 51908, Sept. 2, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10648  Modified lithium iron phosphates (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
modified lithium iron phosphates (PMNs P-10-545 and P-10-546) are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this 
rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN substances after they have 
been completely reacted (cured), embedded or incorporated into a polymer 
matrix that has been reacted (cured), or embedded in a permanent solid 
polymer form that is not intended to undergo further processing, except 
mechanical.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4) and (a)(6)(i). When determining which persons are 
reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) and 
(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the 
operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent or reduce exposure, where feasible. A 
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with N100 
cartridges meets the minimum requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (battery electrode components, contained 
use) and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(b)(1) and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[79 FR 51908, Sept. 2, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10649  MDI modified polyalkylene glycol adipate polyester 
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as MDI 
modified polyalkylene glycol adipate polyester (PMN P-11-115) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set 
at 0.1 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4), engineering 
control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, 
general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., 
workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented 
to prevent or reduce exposure, where feasible. The following National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirators with an assigned

[[Page 709]]

protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of Sec. 
721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose- fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters;
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters; and
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 51909, Sept. 2, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10651  Carbide derived nanocarbon (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as carbide 
derived nanocarbon (PMN P-11-290) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (manufacture of the substance by the method 
described in the premanufacture notice).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[79 FR 51909, Sept. 2, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10652  Hexanedioic acid, polymer with polyether polyol, 
1,1'-methylenebis[4-isocyanatobenzene] and dihydroxydialkyl ether
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
hexanedioic acid, polymer with polyether polyol, 1,1'-methylenebis[4-
isocyanatobenzene] and dihydroxydialkyl ether (PMN P-11-309) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set 
at 0.1 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4), engineering 
control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, 
general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., 
workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented 
to prevent or reduce exposure, where feasible. The following National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet 
the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator

[[Page 710]]

equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters;
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters;
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters; and
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 51909, Sept. 2, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10653  Hexanedioic acid, polymer with .alpha.-hydro-.omega.
-hydroxypoly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)],1,1'-methylenebis[4-
isocyanatobenzene], dihydroxydialkyl ether and dialkanol ether
(generic).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
hexanedioic acid, polymer with .alpha.-hydro-.omega.-
hydroxypoly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)],1,1'-methylenebis[4-
isocyanatobenzene], dihydroxydialkyl ether and dialkanol ether (PMN P-
11-311) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set 
at 0.1 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4), engineering 
control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, 
general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., 
workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented 
to prevent or reduce exposure, where feasible. The following National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet 
the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters;
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters; and
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 51910, Sept. 2, 2014, as amended at 79 FR 60760, Oct. 8, 2014]

[[Page 711]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10654  Hexanedioic acid, polymer with .alpha.-hydro-.omega.
-hydroxypoly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)],1,1'-methylenebis
[isocyanatobenzene],dihydroxydialkyl ether and dialkanol ether
(generic).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
hexanedioic acid, polymer with .alpha.-hydro-.omega.-
hydroxypoly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)],1,1'-
methylenebis[isocyanatobenzene], dihydroxydialkyl ether and dialkanol 
ether (PMN P-11-312) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set 
at 0.1 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63 (a)(4), engineering 
control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, 
general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., 
workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented 
to prevent or reduce exposure, where feasible. The following National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet 
the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters;
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters; and
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 51910, Sept. 2, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10655  Hexanedioic acid, polymer with .alpha.-hydro-.omega.
-hydroxypoly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)],1,1'-methylenebis[4-
isocyanatobenzene], dihydroxydialkyl ether, reaction products with
dialkylcarbinol(generic).
           
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
hexanedioic acid, polymer with .alpha.-hydro-.omega.-
hydroxypoly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)],1,1'-methylenebis[4-
isocyanatobenzene], dihydroxydialkyl ether, reaction products with 
dialkylcarbinol (PMN P-11-313) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set 
at 0.1 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63 (a)(4), engineering 
control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, 
general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., 
workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented 
to prevent or reduce exposure, where feasible. The following National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirators with an assigned

[[Page 712]]

protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of Sec. 
721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters;
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters; and
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 51910, Sept. 2, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10656  Hexanedioic acid, polymer with .alpha.-hydro-.omega
-hydroxypoly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)],1,1'-methylenebis[4-
isocyanatobenzene], dihydroxydialkyl ether reaction products with
dialkylcarbinol(generic).

           
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
hexanedioic acid, polymer with .alpha.-hydro-.omega.-
hydroxypoly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)],1,1'-methylenebis[4-
isocyanatobenzene], dihydroxydialkyl ether reaction products with 
dialkylcarbinol (PMN P-11-314) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (b)(concentration set at 
0.1 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4), engineering 
control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, 
general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., 
workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented 
to prevent or reduce exposure, where feasible. The following National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet 
the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters;
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters; and
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.

[[Page 713]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 51911, Sept. 2, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10657  Castor oil, polymer with hydrogenated vegetable oil,
1,1'-methylenebis[isocyanatobenzene] and isocyanate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as castor 
oil, polymer with hydrogenated vegetable oil, 1,1'-
methylenebis[isocyanatobenzene] and isocyanate (PMN P-12-73) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set 
at 0.1 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4), engineering 
control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, 
general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., 
workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented 
to prevent or reduce exposure, where feasible. The following National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet 
the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters;
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters; and
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 51911, Sept. 2, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10658  2-Oxepanone, polymer with 1,6-diisocyanatohexane,
2,2-dimethyl-1,3-propanediol and 2,2'-oxybis[ethanol].

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-oxepanone, polymer 
with 1,6-diisocyimatohexane, 2,2-dimethyl-1,3-propanediol and 2,2'-
oxybis[ethanol] (PMN P-12-133; CAS No. 1313708-90-5) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set 
at 0.1 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4), engineering 
control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, 
general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., 
workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented 
to prevent or reduce exposure, where feasible. The following National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet 
the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator

[[Page 714]]

equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters;
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters;
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters; and
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 51912, Sept. 2, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10659  Poly(oxy-1,4-butanediyl), -hydro-hydroxy-, 
polymer with alkyldiisocyanates (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
poly(oxy-1,4-butanediyl), -hydro-hydroxy-, polymer with 
alkyldiisocyanates (PMN P-12-143) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set 
at 0.1 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4), engineering 
control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, 
general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., 
workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented 
to prevent or reduce exposure, where feasible. The following National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet 
the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters;
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters; and
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 51912, Sept. 2, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10660  Aliphatic diisocyanate adduct with substituted 
amino alkyl silane (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
aliphatic diisocyanate adduct with substituted amino alkyl silane (PMN 
P-12-274) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4),

[[Page 715]]

(a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 
percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely 
to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4), engineering control 
measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and 
local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace 
policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent 
or reduce exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an 
assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of 
Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters;
    (C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
loose- fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) 
filters;
    (D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA 
filters; and
    (E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure 
demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or 
tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 51912, Sept. 2, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10661  Methylenebis[isocyanatobenzene], polymer with 
alkanedoic acid, alkylene glycols, alkoxylated alkanepolyol and
substituted trialkoxysilane (generic).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
methylenebis[isocyanatobenzene], polymer with alkanedoic acid, alkylene 
glycols, alkoxylated alkanepolyol and substituted trialkoxysilane (PMN 
P-11-60) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (manufacture with all isocyanate groups 
reacted within the polymer).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 61).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 27056, July 8, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10662  Acetaldehyde, substituted-, reaction products 
with 2-butyne-1, 4-diol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
acetaldehyde, substituted-, reaction products with 2-butyne-1, 4-diol 
(PMN P-11-204) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (brightener for nickel electroplating).
    (ii) [Reserved]

[[Page 716]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 27056, July 8, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10663  Functionalized multi-walled carbon nanotubes
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
functionalized multi-walled carbon nanotubes (PMN P-12-44) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[78 FR 27056, July 8, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10664  Alkenedioic acid dialkyl ester, reaction products
with alkenoic acid alkyl esters and diamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
alkenedioic acid dialkyl ester, reaction products with alkenoic acid 
alkyl esters and diamine (PMNs P-12-408, P-12-409, P-12-410, P-12-411, 
P-12-412, and P-12-413) are subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 1 parts per billion (ppb) 
for the aggregate of the PMN substances, P-12-408, P-12-409, P-12-410, 
P-12-411, P-12-412, and P-12-413).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 27056, July 8, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10665  2-Propenoic acid, (2-ethyl-2-methyl-1,3-dioxolan-4-yl)
methyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 2-
propenoic acid, (2-ethyl-2-methyl-1,3-dioxolan-4-yl)methyl ester (PMN P-
12-414; CAS No. 69701-99-1) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (reactive intermediate for use in 
ultraviolet (UV), electron beam (EB), and conventionally cured coating 
and ink formulations) and (s) (50,000 kilograms).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.

[[Page 717]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 27056, July 8, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10666  Quaternary ammonium compounds, bis(fattyalkyl) 
dimethyl, salts with tannins (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
quaternary ammonium compounds, bis(fattyalkyl) dimethyl, salts with 
tannins (PMN P-12-437) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 11).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[78 FR 27057, July 8, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10667  Slimes and sludges, aluminum and iron casting,
wastewater treatment, solid waste.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as slimes 
and sludges, aluminum and iron casting, wastewater treatment, solid 
waste (PMN P-12-560; CAS No. 1391739-82-4; chemical substance 
definition: The waste solids produced from the treatment of wastewaters 
during aluminum and iron casting, machining and finishing operations. It 
may contain aluminum, barium, chromium, copper, iron, lead, manganese, 
nickel, and zinc.) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 27057, July 8, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10668  Trisodium diethylene triaminepolycarboxylate 
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
trisodium diethylene triaminepolycarboxylate (PMN P-13-18) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[78 FR 27057, July 8, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10669  Tertiary amine alkyl ether (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 718]]

chemical substance identified generically as tertiary amine alkyl ether 
(PMN P-13-78) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) (a catalyst for producing polyurethane 
foam).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 27057, July 8, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10670  Bromine, manufacture of, by-products from, distillation
residues.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as bromine, 
manufacture of, by-products from, distillation residues (PMN P-13-108; 
chemical substance definition: The complex residuum obtained during the 
production of bromine using brine and waste streams from the production 
of halogenated hydrocarbons. It consists predominantly of halogenated 
hydrocarbons and ketones, having carbon numbers predominantly in the 
range of C3-C17. The boiling point is approximately 98 [deg]C to 350 
[deg]C (208 [deg]F to 662 [deg]F).) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 27057, July 8, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10671  Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as multi-
walled carbon nanotubes (PMNs P-09-198 and P-09-199) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not 
apply to quantities of the PMN substances after they have been 
completely reacted (cured); embedded or incorporated into a polymer 
matrix that itself has been reacted (cured); or embedded in a permanent 
solid polymer form that is not intended to undergo further processing, 
except mechanical processing.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (a)(4) (National Institute 
of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified air-purifying, 
tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with N100 filters), 
(a)(6)(i), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely 
to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63 (a)(1) and (a)(4), 
engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the 
operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (k), and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(b)(1) and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),

[[Page 719]]

(b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[78 FR 48068, Aug. 7, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10672  Sodium olefin sulfonate derivative (generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as sodium 
olefin sulfonate derivative (PMNs P-09-447 and P-09-448) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not 
apply to quantities of the chemical substances after they have been 
completely reacted (cured) or partitioned into oil or petroleum streams 
following use as specific enhanced oil recovery applications that have 
been claimed confidential.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72 (a), (b), (c). (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), 
(g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(1) of this 
section.

[78 FR 48063, Aug. 7, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10673  Alkanes, C21-34-branched and linear, chloro.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as alkanes, C21-34-
branched and linear, chloro (PMN P-12-539; CAS No. 1417900-96-9) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (j)(manufacture of the PMN substance with less 
than 1 weight percent of chlorinated paraffins with an alkyl chain <= 
20) and (p) (1,200,000 kg, 14,100,000 kg, 59,100,000 kg, 78,400,000 kg, 
and 86,100,000 kg of the aggregate of the PMN substances P-12-539, P-13-
107, and P-13-109, from the March 19, 2013 effective date of the TSCA 
section 5(e) consent order for P-12-539, P-13-107, and P-13-109).).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 7463, Feb. 12, 2016]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10674  Alkanes, C22-30-branched and linear, chloro.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as alkanes, C22-30-
branched and linear, chloro (PMN P-13-107; CAS No. 1401947-24-0) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 720]]

    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (j)(manufacture of the PMN substance with less 
than 1 weight percent of chlorinated paraffins with an alkyl chain <= 
20) and (p) (1,200,000 kg, 14,100,000 kg, 59,100,000 kg, 78,400,000 kg, 
and 86,100,000 kg of the aggregate of the PMN substances P-12-539, P-13-
107, and P-13-109, from the March 19, 2013 effective date of the TSCA 
section 5(e) consent order for P-12-539, P-13-107, and P-13-109).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 7463, Feb. 12, 2016]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10675  Alkanes, C24-28, chloro.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as alkanes, C24-28, 
chloro (PMN P-13-109; CAS No. 1402738-52-6) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (j) (manufacture of the PMN substance with 
less than 1 weight percent of chlorinated paraffins with an alkyl chain 
<= 20) and (p) (1,200,000 kg, 14,100,000 kg, 59,100,000 kg, 78,400,000 
kg, and 86,100,000 kg of the aggregate of the PMN substances P-12-539, 
P-13-107, and P-13-109, from the March 19, 2013 effective date of the 
TSCA section 5(e) consent order for P-12-539, P-13-107, and P-13-109).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 7463, Feb. 12, 2016]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10676  Aromatic hydrocarbon mixture (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as aromatic 
hydrocarbon mixture (PMN P-12-551) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 78).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 48065, Aug. 7, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10677  Alkyl phosphonate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkyl 
phosphonate (PMN P-12-584) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), and (a)(3). When determining which persons are 
reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63 (a)(1) and 
(a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of

[[Page 721]]

the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible.
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 48065, Aug. 7, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10678  1,4-Cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, 1,4-dimethyl
ester, hydrogenolysis products.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,4-
cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, 1,4-dimethyl ester, hydrogenolysis 
products (PMN P-13-10; CAS No. 1373220-73-5) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 20).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 48065, Aug. 7, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10679  Carboxylic acid, substituted alkylstannylene ester,
reaction products with inorganic acid tetra alkyl ester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
carboxylic acid, substituted alkylstannylene ester, reaction products 
with inorganic acid tetra alkyl ester (PMN P-13-30) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (ii) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0%), and 
(c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed 
as required for Sec. 721.63 (a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control 
measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and 
local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace 
policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent 
exposure, where feasible.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 48066, Aug. 7, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10680  Fatty acid amides (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as fatty 
acid amides (PMNs P-13-44, P-13-46, P-13-47, P-13-50, and P-13-51) are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 722]]

    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use other than 
as adhesion promoters for asphalt applications or emulsifiers for 
asphalt applications.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 48066, Aug. 7, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10681  Alkaneamide, halo-dialkylthienyl-alkoxydialkyl-,
manuf. of by-products from (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
alkaneamide, halo-dialkylthienyl-alkoxydialkyl-, manuf. of by-products 
from (PMNs P-13-55 and PMN P-13-56) are subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[78 FR 48066, Aug. 7, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10682  Fatty acid amide hydrochlorides (generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as fatty 
acid amide hydrochlorides (PMNs P-13-63, P-13-64, P-13-65, P-13-69, P-
13-70, P-13-71, P-13-72, P-13-73, P-13-74, P-13-75, P-13-76, and P-13-
77) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use other than 
as surfactants for use in asphalt emulsions.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 48066, Aug. 7, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10683  Dialkylamino cocoalkyl alkylamide acid salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
dialkylamino cocoalkyl alkylamide acid salt (PMN P-13-131) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.

[[Page 723]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 48066, Aug. 7, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10684  Substituted benzenamine schiff base (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted benzenamine schiff base (PMN P-13-135) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 48066, Aug. 7, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10685  Phosphoric acid, mixed esters (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
phosphoric acid, mixed esters (PMN P-13-170) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 48067, Aug. 7, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10686  Fatty acid amides (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as fatty 
acid amides (PMNs P-13-180, P-13-181, P-13-182, P-13-183, P-13-184, and 
P-13-185) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use other than 
as adhesion promoters for asphalt applications or emulsifiers for 
asphalt applications.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 48067, Aug. 7, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10687  Fatty acid amide hydrochlorides (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as fatty 
acid amide hydrochlorides (PMNs P-13-201, P-13-203, P-13-204, P-13-205, 
P-13-206, P-13-207, P-13-208, and P-13-209) are subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use other than 
as surfactants for asphalt emulsions.
    (ii) [Reserved]

[[Page 724]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 48067, Aug. 7, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10688  Copper, chloro[tris(2-chloroethyl) phosphite-.
kappa.P]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as copper, 
chloro[tris(2-chloroethyl) phosphite-.kappa.P]- (PMN P-13-221; CAS No. 
24484-01-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 6).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[78 FR 48067, Aug. 7, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10689  Organo zinc salts (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as organo 
zinc salts (PMN P-13-225) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 3).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 48067, Aug. 7, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10690  Benzenedicarboxylic acid, polymer with substituted
alkanediol, dodecanedioic acid, 1,2-ethanediol, alkanedioic acid, 
alkanediol,.alpha.-hydro-.omega.-hydroxypoly[oxyalkanediyl], 1,3-
isobenzofurandione, methylene diphenyl diisocyanate, 2-
oxepanone, 2,2'-oxybis[ethanol] and polymethylene 
polyphenylene isocyanate (generic).

          
    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
benzenedicarboxylic acid, polymer with substituted alkanediol, 
dodecanedioic acid, 1,2-ethanediol, alkanedioic acid, 
alkanediol,.alpha.-hydro-.omega.-hydroxypoly[oxyalkanediyl], 1,3-
isobenzofurandione, methylene diphenyl diisocyanate, 2-oxepanone, 2,2'-
oxybis[ethanol] and polymethylene polyphenylene isocyanate (PMN P-13-
232) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (o) and (y)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),

[[Page 725]]

(b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this 
substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 48067, Aug. 7, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10691  Fatty acid amide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fatty 
acid amide (PMN P-13-267) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 48068, Aug. 7, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10692  Fluorinated alkyl dianiline (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
fluorinated alkyl dianiline (PMN P-13-288) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 48068, Aug. 7, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10693  Diphenylmethane diisocyanate polymer with alkanoic
diacid and alkanediol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
diphenylmethane diisocyanate polymer with alkanoic diacid and alkanediol 
(PMN P-13-338) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (o) and (y)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[78 FR 48068, Aug. 7, 2013]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10695  1,2,3-Propanetricarboxamide, N1,N2,N3-tris
(2-methylcyclohexyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,2,3-
Propanetricarboxamide, N1,N2,N3-tris(2-methylcyclohexyl)- (PMN P-08-179; 
CAS No. 160535-46-6) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 12).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 726]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 8285, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10696  Polyfluorinated alkyl thiol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
polyfluorinated alkyl thiol (PMNs P-11-483 and P-11-528) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of the 
substances is any manner or method of manufacture or processing 
associated with any use of the substances without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for the substances, the employer becomes aware that 
the substances may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If the substance(s) are not being 
manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the 
employer must add the new information to a MSDS before the substance(s) 
are reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance(s) from the employer, or who have received the PMN 
substance(s) from the employer within 5 years from the date the employer 
becomes aware of the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) 
of this section, are provided an MSDS containing the information 
required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days 
from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (a significant new use is any use other 
than as allowed by the section 5(e) consent order which includes 
analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum impurity levels of 
certain fluorinated impurities), and (o) (use in a consumer product that 
could be spray applied).
    (iii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85(a)(1) and 
(b)(1) (at a temperature of at least 1,000 degrees C with a minimum 
residence time of 2 seconds).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1), except for releases allowed by the 
section 5(e) the consent order .
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (h), (j) and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[79 FR 8285, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10697  Polyfluorinated alkyl polyamide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyfluorinated alkyl polyamide (PMN P-11-487) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to

[[Page 727]]

human health or the environment, the employer must incorporate this new 
information, and any information on methods for protecting against such 
risk, into a MSDS as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from 
the time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If this 
substance is not being manufactured, processed, or used in the 
employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to a 
MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance from the employer, or who have received the PMN substance from 
the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of 
the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, 
are provided an MSDS containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (a significant new use is any use other 
than as allowed by the section 5(e) consent order which includes 
analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum impurity levels of 
certain fluorinated impurities), (o) (use in a consumer product that 
could be spray applied), (q), and (t).
    (iii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85(a)(1) and 
(b)(1) (at a temperature of at least 1,000 degrees C with a minimum 
residence time of 2 seconds).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1), except for releases allowed by the 
section 5(e) the consent order.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), (h), (i), (j), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[79 FR 8286, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10698  Polyfluorinated alkyl halide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyfluorinated alkyl halide (PMN P-11-527) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not being 
manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the 
employer must add the new information to a MSDS before the substance is 
reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance from the employer, or who have received the PMN substance from 
the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of 
the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, 
are provided an MSDS containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (a significant new use is any use other 
than as allowed by the section 5(e) consent order which includes 
analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum impurity levels of

[[Page 728]]

certain fluorinated impurities), and (o) (use in a consumer product that 
could be spray applied).
    (iii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85(a)(1) and 
(b)(1) (at a temperature of at least 1,000 degrees C with a minimum 
residence time of 2 seconds).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1), except for releases allowed by the 
section 5(e) the consent order.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (h), (j), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[79 FR 8286, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10699  Polyfluorinated alkyl thio acrylamide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyfluorinated alkyl thio acrylamide (PMN P-11-529) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not being 
manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the 
employer must add the new information to a MSDS before the substance is 
reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance from the employer, or who have received the PMN substance from 
the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of 
the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, 
are provided an MSDS containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (a significant new use is any use other 
than as allowed by the section 5(e) consent order which includes 
analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum impurity levels of 
certain fluorinated impurities), and (o) (use in a consumer product that 
could be spray applied).
    (iii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85(a)(1) and 
(b)(1) (at a temperature of at least 1,000 degrees C with a minimum 
residence time of 2 seconds).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1), except for releases allowed by the 
section 5(e) the consent order.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (h), (j), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[79 FR 8287, Feb. 12, 2014]

[[Page 729]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10700  Polyfluorinated alkyl thio polyacrylamide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
polyfluorinated alkyl thio polyacrylamide (PMNs P-11-530 and P-11-533) 
are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of the 
substances is any manner or method of manufacture, or processing 
associated with any use of the substances without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for the substances, the employer becomes aware that 
the substances may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If the substance(s) is not being 
manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the 
employer must add the new information to a MSDS before the substance(s) 
is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance(s) from the employer, or who have received the PMN 
substance(s) from the employer within 5 years from the date the employer 
becomes aware of the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) 
of this section, are provided an MSDS containing the information 
required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days 
from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (a significant new use is any use other 
than as allowed by the section 5(e) consent order which includes 
analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum impurity levels of 
certain fluorinated impurities), (o) (use in a consumer product that 
could be spray applied), (q), and (t).
    (iii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85(a)(1) and 
(b)(1) (at a temperature of at least 1,000 degrees C with a minimum 
residence time of 2 seconds).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1), except for releases allowed by the 
section 5(e) the consent order.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (h), (j), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this 
section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[79 FR 8287, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10701  Polyfluorinated alkyl amine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyfluorinated alkyl amine (PMN P-11-532) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not being 
manufactured, processed, or used

[[Page 730]]

in the employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information 
to a MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance from the employer, or who have received the PMN substance from 
the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of 
the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, 
are provided an MSDS containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (a significant new use is any use other 
than as allowed by the section 5(e) consent order which includes 
analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum impurity levels of 
certain fluorinated impurities), and (o) (use in a consumer product that 
could be spray applied).
    (iii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85(a)(1) and 
(b)(1) (at a temperature of at least 1,000 degrees C with a minimum 
residence time of 2 seconds).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1), except for releases allowed by the 
section 5(e) the consent order.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), (h), (i), (j), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[79 FR 8287, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10702  Polyfluorinated alkyl thio polyacrylic acid-
acrylamide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyfluorinated alkyl thio polyacrylic acid-acrylamide (PMN P-11-534) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture, or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not being 
manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the 
employer must add the new information to a MSDS before the substance is 
reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance from the employer, or who have received the PMN substance from 
the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of 
the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, 
are provided an MSDS containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (a significant new use is any use other 
than as allowed by the section 5(e) consent order which includes 
analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum impurity levels of 
certain fluorinated impurities), (o) (use in a consumer product that 
could be spray applied), (q), and (t).
    (iii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85(a)(1) and 
(b)(1) (at a temperature of at least 1,000 degrees C with

[[Page 731]]

a minimum residence time of 2 seconds).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1), except for releases allowed by the 
section 5(e) the consent order .
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), (h), (i), (j), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[79 FR 8288, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10703  Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as multi-
walled carbon nanotubes (PMNs P-12-416, P-12-417, P-12-418, and P-12-
419) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of 
this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substances that have 
been completely reacted (cured); incorporated or embedded into a polymer 
matrix that itself has been completely reacted (cured); imbedded into a 
permanent polymer form that is not intended to undergo further 
processing; or incorporated into an article as defined at 40 CFR 
721.3(c).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (National Institute 
of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified air-purifying, 
tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with N-100, or P-100, or R-
100 filters or power air-purifying particulate respirator), (a)(6)(i), 
and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be 
exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering 
control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, 
general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., 
workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented 
to prevent exposure, where feasible.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(f), (k) and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[79 FR 8288, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10704  Aryl-substituted alkane.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an aryl-
substituted alkane (PMN P-12-548) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(3)(ii) and 
(g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) and (q). It is a significant new use to 
conduct testing on the chemical substance to comply with REACH 
(Regulation, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals in 
the European Union) without submitting all final reports and the 
underlying data of the testing to EPA no

[[Page 732]]

later than 90 days after submission of the testing to the European 
Union.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of 
this section.

[79 FR 8289, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10705  Aromatic amine with cyclo amino carbonyls (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as aromatic 
amine with cyclo amino carbonyls (PMN P-12-572) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (NIOSH-certified particulate 
respirator with an APF of at least 10), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b) 
(concentration set 0.1 percent), and (c). When determining which persons 
are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4), 
engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the 
operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following 
NIOSH-certified respirators with an APF of at least 10 meet the 
requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified power air-purifying respirator with a hood or 
helmet and with appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or 
substance specific) cartridges in combination with high efficiency 
particulate absorption (HEPA) filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped 
with a loose fitting face piece, hood, or helmet.
    (C) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air 
respirator with a full face piece.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 11).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 8289, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10706  Infused carbon nanostructures (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as infused 
carbon nanostructures (PMN P-12-576) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any manufacturing 
process other than that described in the premanufacture notice (PMN) 
which includes the incorporation of the PMN substance into pellets.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of

[[Page 733]]

Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.

[79 FR 8289, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10707  Substituted benzyl acrylate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as substituted benzyl 
acrylate (PMN P-13-127) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 8289, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10708  Zirconium substituted heteropolycyclic (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
zirconium substituted heteropolycyclic (PMN P-13-152) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 8290, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10709  Alkylphenol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkylphenol (PMN P-13-168) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 8290, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10710  4, 7-Methano-1H-indene, 3a, 4, 7, 7a-tetrahydro-,
polymer with 2-methyl-1, 3-butadiene and 5-(1-methylethenyl)
bicyclo[2.2.1]hept-2-ene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 4, 7-methano-1H-
indene, 3a, 4, 7, 7a-tetrahydro-, polymer with 2-methyl-1, 3-butadiene 
and 5-(1-methylethenyl)bicyclo[2.2.1]hept-2-ene (PMN P-13-192; CAS No. 
1412159-51-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a),

[[Page 734]]

(b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this 
substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 8290, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10711  Alkyl substituted catechol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkyl 
substituted catechol (PMN P-13-197) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4) (NIOSH-certified particulate 
respirator with an APF of at least 1,000), and (c). When determining 
which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or 
confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or 
administrative control measures (e.g., place policies and procedures) 
shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. 
The following NIOSH-certified respirators with an APF of at least 1,000 
meet the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4);
    (A) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped 
with a full face piece.
    (B) NIOSH-certified pressure-demand supplied-air respirator equipped 
with a full face piece.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 20).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 8290, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10712  Antimony tris(dialkyldithiocarbamate) (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as antimony 
tris(dialkyldithiocarbamate) (PMN P-13-217) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 4).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 8290, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10713  Antimony tris(dialkyldithiocarbamate) (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as antimony 
tris(dialkyldithiocarbamate) (PMN P-13-259) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 4).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a),

[[Page 735]]

(b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this 
substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 8290, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10714  Zinc bis(dialkyldithiocarbamate) (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as zinc 
bis(dialkyldithiocarbamate) (PMN P-13-260) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 7).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 8291, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10715  Carbonic acid, dialkyl ester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as carbonic 
acid, dialkyl ester (PMN P-13-346) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f), (j), and (s) (100,000 kilograms).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 8291, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10716  Phenol, 2,6-dimethyl-, homopolymer, ether with 
2,2',3,3',5,5'-hexamethyl[1,1'biphenyl]-4,4'diol (2:1),bis
[(ethenylphenyl)methyl] ether.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phenol, 2,6-
dimethyl-, homopolymer, ether with 2,2',3,3',5,5'-hexamethyl[1,1'-
biphenyl]-4,4'-diol (2:1),bis[(ethenylphenyl)methyl] ether (PMN P-13-
355, CAS No. 558452-77-0) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 8291, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10718  Substituted picolinic acid (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted picolinic acid (PMN P-13-374) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 736]]

    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use other than 
as a pesticide intermediate.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 8291, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10721  Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.,.alpha.'-
[(1-methylethylidene)di-4,1-phenylene]bis[.omega.-[[6-(2,5-dihydro-
2,5-dioxo-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)-1-oxohexyl]oxy]-.
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as poly(oxy-1,2-
ethanediyl), .alpha.,.alpha.'-[(1-methylethylidene)di-4,1-
phenylene]bis[.omega.-[[6-(2,5-dihydro-2,5-dioxo-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)-1-
oxohexyl]oxy]- (PMN P-13-455) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 8292, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10722  Oxirane,2-[(1-propen-1-yloxy)methyl]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as oxirane,2-[(1-
propen-1-yloxy)methyl]- (PMN P-13-468; CAS No. 1607-23-4) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (b)(1) 
(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). When determining which 
persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 
721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure 
or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or 
administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and 
procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, 
where feasible. The following NIOSH-certified respirators with an APF of 
at least 10 meet the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified power air-purifying respirator with a hood or 
helmet and with appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or 
substance specific) cartridges in combination with HEPA filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped 
with a loose fitting face piece, hood, or helmet.
    (C) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air 
respirator with a full face piece.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 8292, Feb. 12, 2014]

[[Page 737]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10724  Oxirane, [[2-(2-ethenyloxy)ethoxy]methyl]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as oxirane, [[2-(2-
ethenyloxy)ethoxy]methyl]- (PMN P-13-472; CAS No. 16801-19-7) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), 
(b)(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). When determining which 
persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 
721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure 
or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or 
administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and 
procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, 
where feasible. The following NIOSH-certified respirators with an APF of 
at least 10 meet the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified power air-purifying respirator with a hood or 
helmet and with appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or 
substance specific) cartridges in combination with HEPA filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped 
with a loose fitting face piece, hood, or helmet.
    (C) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air 
respirator with a full face piece.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 8293, Feb. 12, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10725  Alcohol propoxylate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alcohol 
propoxylate (PMN P-08-512) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(l)
    (ii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85(a)(1), 
(a)(3) (Class I or II wells), (b)(1), (b)(3) (Class I or II wells), 
(c)(1), and (c)(3) (Class I or II wells).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(2)(ii), (b)(2)(ii), and (c)(2)(ii).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in in 
Sec. 721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), (j), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 39281, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10726  Alcohol propoxylate sulfate salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alcohol 
propoxylate sulfate salt (PMN P-08-513) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(l)
    (ii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85(a)(1), 
(a)(3) (Class I or II wells), (b)(1), (b)(3) (Class I or II wells), 
(c)(1), and (c)(3) (Class I or II wells).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(2)(ii), (b)(2)(ii), and (c)(2)(ii).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 738]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in in 
Sec. 721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), (j), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 39281, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10727  Amphoteric fluorinated surfactant (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
amphoteric fluorinated surfactant (PMN P-11-526) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not being 
manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the 
employer must add the new information to a MSDS before the substance is 
reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance from the employer, or who have received the PMN substance from 
the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of 
the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, 
are provided an MSDS containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k)(a significant new use is any use other 
than as allowed by the section 5(e) consent order which includes 
analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum impurity levels of 
certain fluorinated impurities), and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[79 FR 39281, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10728  2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-hydroxyethyl esters,
telomers with C18-26-alkyl acrylate, 1-dodecanethiol, N-(hydroxymethyl)-2-methyl-2-
propenamide, polyfluorooctyl methacrylate, 2,2'-[1,2-diazenediylbis
(1-methylethylidene)]bis[4,5-dihydro-1H-imidazole]hydrochloride (1:2)
-initiated (generic).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 2-
propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-hydroxyethyl esters, telomers with C18-26-
alkyl acrylate, 1-dodecanethiol, N-(hydroxymethyl)-2-methyl-2-
propenamide, polyfluorooctyl methacrylate, 2,2'-[1,2-diazenediylbis(1-
methylethylidene)]bis[4,5-dihydro-1H-imidazole]hydrochloride (1:2)-
initiated (PMN P-12-241) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:

[[Page 739]]

    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not being 
manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the 
employer must add the new information to a MSDS before the substance is 
reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance from the employer, or who have received the PMN substance from 
the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of 
the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, 
are provided an MSDS containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (a significant new use is any use other 
than as allowed by the section 5(e) consent order which includes 
analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum impurity levels of 
certain fluorinated impurities), (q), and (t).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[79 FR 39281, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10729  2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, C16-18 esters, telomers
with 3-chloro-2-hydroxypropyl methacrylate, 1-dodecanethiol,
N-(hydroxymethyl)-2-methyl-2-propenamide, polyfluorooctyl methacrylate,
and rel- (1R,2R,4R)-1,7,7-trimethylbicyclo[2.2.1]hept-2-ylmethacrylate,
2,2'-[1,2-diazenediylbis(1-methylethylidene)]bis[4,5-dihydro-1H-
imidazole]hydrochloride (1:2)-initiated (generic).
          
          
          
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 2-
propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, C16-18 esters, telomers with 3-chloro-2-
hydroxypropyl methacrylate, 1-dodecanethiol, N-(hydroxymethyl)-2-methyl-
2-propenamide, polyfluorooctyl methacrylate, and rel-(1R,2R,4R)-1,7,7-
trimethylbicyclo[2.2.1]hept-2-yl methacrylate, 2,2'-[1,2-
diazenediylbis(1-methylethylidene)]bis[4,5-dihydro-1H-
imidazole]hydrochloride (1:2)-initiated (PMN P-12-242) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not being 
manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the 
employer must add the new information to a MSDS before the substance is 
reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance from the employer, or who have received the PMN substance from 
the employer within 5 years from the date

[[Page 740]]

the employer becomes aware of the new information described in paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, are provided an MSDS containing the 
information required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 
90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (a significant new use is any use other 
than as allowed by the section 5(e) consent order which includes 
analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum impurity levels of 
certain fluorinated impurities), (q), and (t).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[79 FR 39282, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10730  Tires, wastes, pyrolyzed, C6-39 oil fraction.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as tires, wastes, 
pyrolyzed, C6-39 oil fraction (P-12-557; CAS No. 1410795-89-9) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this 
rule do not apply to quantities of the chemical substance that has been 
blended into finished petroleum products or sent to a petroleum refinery 
for use as a chemical intermediate.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), 
(g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 360).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(1) of this 
section.

[79 FR 39282, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10731  Tires, wastes, pyrolyzed, C7-56 oil fraction.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as tires, wastes, 
pyrolyzed, C7-56 oil fraction (P-12-558; CAS No. 1410795-87-7) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this 
rule do not apply to quantities of the chemical substance that has been 
blended into finished petroleum products or sent to a petroleum refinery 
for use as a chemical intermediate.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), 
(g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 170).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a),

[[Page 741]]

(b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers 
and processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(1) of this 
section.

[79 FR 39283, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10732  Neodymium, butadiene iso-Bu neodecanoate complexes.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as neodymium, butadiene 
iso-Bu neodecanoate complexes (PMN P-13-60; CAS No. 1386395-00-1) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Releases to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 8).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 39283, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10733  Tires, wastes, pyrolyzed, C5-15 condensate oil
fraction.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as tires, wastes, 
pyrolyzed, C5-15 condensate oil fraction (PMN P-13-237; chemical 
substance definition: A complex combination of hydrocarbons obtained 
from the substance produced by the pyrolysis of rubber-based tires after 
removal of the carbon black fraction. It consists predominantly of 
hydrocarbons having carbon numbers in the range of C5 through C15. It 
boils in the range of approximately 36 [deg]C to 265 [deg]C (97 [deg]F 
to 509 [deg]F).) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The 
requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN 
substances that have been blended into finished petroleum products or 
sent to a petroleum refinery for use as a chemical intermediate, or 
stored as described in the Distribution section of the order.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. The significant new use is any 
exposure exceeding an 8 hour time weighted average (TWA) exposure limit 
of 1 part per million (ppm).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use other 
than as a raw feedstock for refineries.
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 4).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), (k), and records documenting that exposures 
do not exceed an 8 hour time weighted average (TWA) exposure limit of 1 
part per million are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this 
substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[79 FR 39283, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10734  Lithium salt of substituted imide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as lithium 
salt of substituted imide (PMN P-13-248) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent) and (c). 
When determining which persons are reasonably likely to

[[Page 742]]

be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4), engineering control 
measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and 
local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace 
policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent 
exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an 
assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of 
Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified power air- purifying respirator with a hood or 
helmet and with appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or 
substance specific) cartridges in combination with HEPA filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped 
with a loose fitting facepiece, hood, or helmet.
    (C) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air 
respirator with a full facepiece.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 39283, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10736  Alcohols, C9-11-branched, ethoxylated propoxylated.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as alcohols, C9-11-
branched, ethoxylated propoxylated (PMN P-13-309; CAS No. 1400790-00-2) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use other than 
as a component of a pigment dispersant blend for inks and coatings.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 39284, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10737  Carboxylic anhydride, polymer with -hydro--hydroxypoly
(oxy-1,2-diethanediyl), compd. with 2,3,4,6,7,8,9,10-octahydropyrimido
-[1,2-a]azepine (generic).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
carboxylic anhydride, polymer with -hydro--hydroxypoly(oxy-1,2-
diethanediyl), compd. with 2,3,4,6,7,8,9,10-octahydropyrimido-[1,2-
a]azepine (PMN P-13-378) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Releases to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 24).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 39284, July 9, 2014]

[[Page 743]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10738  Formaldehyde, polymer with 2,3-dimethylphenol, 
2,4-dimethylphenol, 2,5-dimethylphenol, 3,5-dimethylphenol,
3-ethylphenol, 4-ethylphenol, 3-methylphenol, 4-methylphenol
and phenol.
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as formaldehyde, 
polymer with 2,3-dimethylphenol, 2,4-dimethylphenol, 2,5-dimethylphenol, 
3,5-dimethylphenol, 3-ethylphenol, 4-ethylphenol, 3-methylphenol, 4-
methylphenol and phenol (PMN P-13-453; CAS No. 1415313-86-8) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 5).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 39284, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10739  Caprolactone homopolymer of substituted benzotriazole
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
caprolactone homopolymer of substituted benzotriazole (PMN P-13-465) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 39284, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10740  Tin(2 + ) salt of alkylcarboxylic acid (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as tin(2 + 
) salt of alkylcarboxylic acid (PMN P-13-473) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) and (s).
    (ii) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), and (a)(3).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(1) of this 
section.

[79 FR 39284, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10745  Alkoxylated quaternary alkyl ammonium 
fluoroalkylsulfonimide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkoxylated quaternary alkyl ammonium fluoroalkylsulfonimide (PMN P-13-
722) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

[[Page 744]]

    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 9).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 39286, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10746  Isocyanate terminated urethane polymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
isocyanate terminated urethane polymer (PMN P-13-753) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), and (c). When determining which 
persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or 
confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or 
administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and 
procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, 
where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety 
and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned protection 
factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified power air- purifying respirator with a hood or 
helmet and with appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or 
substance specific) cartridges in combination with HEPA filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped 
with a loose fitting facepiece, hood, or helmet.
    (C) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air 
respirator with a full facepiece.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 39286, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10747  4-Pyrimidianamine, 2,5 dimethoxy-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 4-pyrimidianamine, 
2,5 dimethoxy- (PMN P-13-773; CAS No. 6960-17-4) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (b) 
(concentration set at 0.1 percent) and (c). When determining which 
persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 
721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure 
or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or 
administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and 
procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, 
where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety 
and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned protection 
factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified power air-purifying respirator with a hood or 
helmet and with appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or 
substance specific) cartridges in combination with HEPA filters;

[[Page 745]]

    (B) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped 
with a loose fitting facepiece, hood, or helmet;
    (C) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air 
respirator with a full facepiece.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use other 
than as an herbicide intermediate.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 39286, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10748  Dicarbomonocycle-substituted 
carbomonocycledicarboxamide generic).
(

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
dicarbomonocycle-substituted carbomonocycledicarboxamide (PMNs P-13-796, 
P-13-797, and P-13-798) are subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 4 for P-13-796 and P-13-797; and N 
= 14 for P-13-798).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance,
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[79 FR 39287, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10749  Dicarboheterocycle-substituted
carbomonocycledicarboxamide (generic).


    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
dicarboheterocycle-substituted carbomonocycledicarboxamide (PMN P-13-
799) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance,
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[79 FR 39287, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10750  Tricarbomonocycle-substituted 
carbomonocycletricarboxamide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
tricarbomonocycle-substituted carbomonocycletricarboxamide (PMN P-13-
800) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a),

[[Page 746]]

(b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this 
substance,
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.

[79 FR 39287, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10751  Cycloalkylamino oleyl alkylamide acid salts (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
cycloalkylamino oleyl alkylamide acid salts (PMNs P-13-810, P-13-811, P-
13-812, P-13-813, P-13-814, and P-13-815) are subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1, for the aggregate of the PMN 
substances P-13-810, P-13-811, P-13-812, P-13-813, P-13-814, and P-13-
815).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 39287, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10752  Cycloalkylamino cocoalkyl alkylamide acid salts
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
cycloalkylamino cocoalkyl alkylamide acid salts (PMNs P-13-816, P-13-
817, P-13-818, P-13-819, P-13-820, and P-13-821) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1, for the aggregate of the PMN 
substances P-13-816, P-13-817, P-13-818, P-13-819, P-13-820, and P-13-
821).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 39287, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10753  Methanamine, N,N-dimethyl-, reaction products with
alkylamine-epichlorohydrin polymer, chlorides (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
methanamine, N,N-dimethyl-, reaction products with alkylamine-
epichlorohydrin polymer, chlorides (PMN P-13-839) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 39288, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10754  Mixture of alkylated benzene, brominated (generic)
and alkylated benzene, dibrominated (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as mixture 
of alkylated benzene, brominated and alkylated benzene,

[[Page 747]]

dibrominated (PMN P-13-882) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use other than 
as feed for a bromine recovery unit.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 39288, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10755  Single-walled carbon nanotubes (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as single-
walled carbon nanotubes (PMN P-10-5) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities 
of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted (cured); 
embedded or incorporated into a polymer matrix that has been reacted 
(cured); or embedded in a permanent solid polymer form that is not 
intended to undergo further processing except for mechanical processing.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii) (clothing that covers other exposed 
areas of the arms, legs, and torso), (a)(3), (a)(4) (National Institute 
for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified air-purifying, 
tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with N100 cartridges), 
(a)(6)(i), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely 
to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering 
control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, 
general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., 
workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented 
to prevent exposure, where feasible.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (a significant new use is any use other 
than as a component for a conductive coating using the PMN substance in 
a dispersion or ink, and additive in resins/thermoplastics/elastomers 
for mechanical reinforcement.) and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1), except for water releases determined 
by monitoring the concentration of the PMN substance in waste water 
effluent according to a monitoring procedure approved for such purpose 
by EPA and when the concentration of the PMN substance does not exceed 1 
part per billion (ppb). EPA will review and act on written requests to 
approve monitoring procedures within 90 days after such requests are 
received. EPA will inform submitters of the disposition of such requests 
in writing, and will explain the reasons therefore when they are denied.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) 
and (a)(2)(iii) of this section.

[79 FR 38472, July 8, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10756  Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as multi-
walled carbon nanotubes (PMN P-11-339) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2)

[[Page 748]]

of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted 
(cured); embedded or incorporated into a polymer matrix that has been 
reacted (cured); or embedded in a permanent solid polymer form that is 
not intended to undergo further processing except for mechanical 
processing.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii) (clothing that covers other exposed 
areas of the arms, legs, and torso), (a)(3), (a)(4) (National Institute 
for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified air-purifying, 
tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with N100, P100, or R100 
cartridges), (a)(6)(i), and (c). When determining which persons are 
reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) and 
(a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of 
the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (a significant new use is any use other 
than as an additive in resins, thermoplastics, and elastomers for 
mechanical reinforcement and enhanced electrical performance, as a 
coating on metallic foils for battery applications, or in the 
manufacture of fabric composites.) and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1), except for water releases determined 
by monitoring the concentration of the PMN substance in waste water 
effluent according to a monitoring procedure approved for such purpose 
by EPA and when the concentration of the PMN substance does not exceed 1 
part per billion (ppb). EPA will review and act on written requests to 
approve monitoring procedures within 90 days after such requests are 
received. EPA will inform submitters of the disposition of such requests 
in writing, and will explain the reasons therefore when they are denied.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) 
and (a)(2)(iii) of this section.

[79 FR 38473, July 8, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10757  Fatty acids, diesters with dihydroxy bicyclic diether
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as fatty 
acids, diesters with dihydroxy bicyclic diether (PMNs P-12-100 and P-12-
150) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use other than 
as a polymer modifier or a seal swell additive for industrial 
applications.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 38473, July 8, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10758  Thermolized wasted plastic (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
thermolized wasted plastic (PMN P-12-125) is subject to reporting

[[Page 749]]

under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely 
fractionated, distilled, or chemically reacted resulting in the 
manufacture of one or more new chemical substances subject to PMN review 
or other chemical substances listed on the TSCA Inventory.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e)(concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(i) to (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i) to (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), 
and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (a significant new use is any use other 
than as allowed by the TSCA section 5(e) consent order which includes 
analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum levels of 
polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin and polychlorinated dibenzofuran 
impurities and monitoring the pH of the aqueous effluent stream from the 
manufacturing process as outlined in the Consent Order.)
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[79 FR 38473, July 8, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10759  Polyphosphoric acids, esters with substituted amines,
compounds with alkyl pyridines (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyphosphoric acids, esters with substituted amines, compounds with 
alkyl pyridines (PMN P-13-369) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use of the PMN 
substance other than as a solids conglomeration additive for down-hole 
treatment of oil and gas wells to prevent the undesirable production of 
solids.
    (ii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85(a)(1).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 8) (for marine discharges, a 
dilution factor of 65 should be applied).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), (j), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 38474, July 8, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10760  Zinc carboxylate salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as zinc 
carboxylate salt (PMN P-13-854) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 3).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.

[[Page 750]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 38474, July 8, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10761  Fatty acid amide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as fatty 
acid amide (PMNs P-14-12, P-14-13, P-14-15, P-14-16) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use of the PMN 
substance other than as an emulsifier for use in asphalt applications.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 38474, July 8, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10763  Alkanaminium, [substituted carbomonocycle [(alkylamino)
carbomonocycle] alkylene]-substituted carbomonocycle, carboxylate salt
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkanaminium, [substituted carbomonocycle [(alkylamino)carbomonocycle] 
alkylene]-substituted carbomonocycle, carboxylate salt (PMN P-14-143) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 38475, July 8, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10764  Substituted perfluoroether (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted perfluoroether (PMN P-14-42) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use of this substance is: 
(1) Use of the substance for any application other than the confidential 
use identified in the Premanufacture Notice (PMN) or (2) Manufacture of 
the PMN substance where the mean number of moles of each perfluoro 
propylene oxide (``PPO'') unit is less than 5.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.180 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[79 FR 39288, July 9, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10766  Pyridine, 4-decyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 751]]

chemical substance identified as pyridine, 4-decyl- (PMN P-10-235; CAS 
No. 1815-99-2) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4) and (b)(4) (N = 1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[79 FR 63833, Oct. 27, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10767  Fluoroether (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
fluoroether (PMN P-11-224) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of 
the PMN substance after they have been completely reacted (cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (a significant new use is any 
manufacturing, processing, or use other than as an electrolyte for 
electrical/electronic equipment) and (q).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[79 FR 63833, Oct. 27, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10768  N-(2-hydroxyethyl) alkenamide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as N-(2-
hydroxyethyl) alkenamide (PMN P-11-226) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance after they have been completely reacted 
(cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(vi), (b), 
and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be 
exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control 
measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and 
local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace 
policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent 
exposure, where feasible.
    (A) The following gloves have been demonstrated to meet the 
requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(3): North Silver Shield Gloves, Ansell 
Barrier Gloves, North Butyl Gloves, Ansell Chemi Pro Gloves, Ansell 
Neoprene Gloves, Ansell So-Vex, and Ansell Canners.
    (B) The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and 
Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an Assigned Protection Factor 
(APF) of at least 1,000 meet the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (1) NIOSH-certified power air-purifying respirator with a hood or 
helmet and with appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or 
substance specific) cartridges in combination with HEPA filters.

[[Page 752]]

    (2) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped 
with a loose fitting face piece, hood, or helmet.
    (3) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air 
respirator with a full face piece.
    (C) As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a 
manufacturer or processor may choose to follow the New Chemical Exposure 
Limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the section TSCA 5(e) consent order 
for this substance. The NCEL is 0.03 mg/m\3\ as an 8-hour time weighted 
average verified by actual monitoring data.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iii), 
(g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(1)(ix), 
(g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), and (g)(2)(iv) (use respiratory protection, or 
maintain workplace airborne concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-
weighted average of 0.03 mg/m\3\), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3), and (g)(4). A 
significant new use of this substance is any manner or method of 
manufacture or processing associated with any use of this substance 
without providing risk notification as follows under Sec. 721.72(c):
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not being 
manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the 
employer must add the new information to a MSDS before the substance is 
reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance from the employer, or who have received the PMN substance from 
the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of 
the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, 
are provided an MSDS containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) and (q).
    (iv) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85(a)(1) 
(destruction and removal efficiency of 99.99%), (a)(3) (underground 
injection control (class 1 well, deep well injection hazardous waste)), 
(b)(1) (destruction and removal efficiency of 99.99%), (b)(3) 
(underground injection control (class 1 well, deep well injection 
hazardous waste)), (c)(1) (destruction and removal efficiency of 
99.99%), (c)(3) (underground injection control (class 1 well, deep well 
injection hazardous waste)).
    (v) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of 
these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of 
this section.

[79 FR 63834, Oct. 27, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10769  1-Octadecanaminium, N,N-dimethyl-N-[3-(triethoxysilyl)
propyl]-, chloride (1:1), reaction products with ethylene glycol.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-octadecanaminium, 
N,N-dimethyl-N-[3-(triethoxysilyl)propyl]-, chloride (1:1), reaction 
products with ethylene glycol (PMN P-12-41; CAS No. 1314035-96-5) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this 
section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after they have 
been completely reacted (cured).

[[Page 753]]

    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f), (k) (a significant new use is import, 
processing and use of the PMN substance other than for waterproofing 
inorganic substrates, an asphalt binder modifier, and waterproofing of 
soil), and (q) (839,000 kilograms).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 63834, Oct. 27, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10770  Fluoroalkyl sulfonamide derivatives (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
fluoroalkyl sulfonamide derivatives (PMN P-12-404, P-12-405, and P-12-
406) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses for P-12-404 and P-12-406 are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b), and (c). When determining which 
persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or 
confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or 
administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and 
procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, 
where feasible.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a), (b), (c), (e), (f), (g)(1) (The PMN substances may: 
Cause serious eye damage; and suspected of damaging fertility or the 
unborn child), and (g)(2) (When using these substances: Wear eye/face 
protection; avoid breathing dust/fume/gas/mist/vapors/spray; and wear 
protective gloves). A significant new use of these substances is any 
manner or method of manufacture or processing associated with any use of 
these substances without providing risk notification as follows under 
Sec. 721.72(c):
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for these substances, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If these substances are not being 
manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the 
employer must add the new information to a MSDS before the substances 
are reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substances from the employer, or who have received the PMN substances 
from the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes 
aware of the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this 
section, are provided an MSDS containing the information required under 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the 
employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) and (q).
    (3) The significant new uses for P-12-405 are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. (A) Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), 
(b), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be 
exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control 
measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and 
local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace 
policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent 
exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-

[[Page 754]]

certified respirators with an Assigned Protection Factor (APF) of at 
least 10 meet the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (1) NIOSH-certified power air-purifying respirator with a hood or 
helmet and with appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or 
substance specific) cartridges in combination with HEPA filters.
    (2) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped 
with a loose fitting face piece, hood, or helmet.
    (3) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air 
respirator with a full face piece.
    (B) As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a 
manufacturer or processor may choose to follow the New Chemical Exposure 
Limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the section TSCA 5(e) consent order 
for these substances. The NCEL is 0.7 mg/m\3\ as an 8-hour time weighted 
average verified by actual monitoring data.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a), (b), (c), (e), (f), (g)(1) (The PMN substance may: 
Cause serious eye damage; and suspected of damaging fertility or the 
unborn child), and (g)(2) (When using this substance: Wear eye/face 
protection; avoid breathing dust/fume/gas/mist/vapors/spray; use 
respiratory protection, or maintain workplace airborne concentrations at 
or below an 8-hour time-weighted average of 0.70 mg/m\3\; and wear 
protective gloves). A significant new use of this substance is any 
manner or method of manufacture or processing associated with any use of 
this substance without providing risk notification as follows under 
Sec. 721.72(c):
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not being 
manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the 
employer must add the new information to a MSDS before the substance is 
reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance from the employer, or who have received the PMN substance from 
the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of 
the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, 
are provided an MSDS containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors 
of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) 
and (a)(3)(iii) of this section.

[79 FR 63835, Oct. 27, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10771  Hexane, 1,6-diisocyanato-, homopolymer, .alpha.-
[1-[[[3-[[3-(dimethylamino)propyl] amino]propyl]amino]carbonyl]-
1,2,2,2-tetrafluoroethyl]-.omega.- (1,1,2,2,3,3,3-heptafluoropropoxy)
poly[oxy[trifluoro(trifluoromethyl)- 1,2-ethanediyl]]-blocked.
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as hexane, 1,6-
diisocyanato-, homopolymer, .alpha.-[1-[[[3-[[3-(dimethylamino)propyl] 
amino]propyl]amino]carbonyl]- 1,2,2,2-tetrafluoroethyl]-.omega.- 
(1,1,2,2,3,3,3-heptafluoropropoxy) poly[oxy[trifluoro(trifluoromethyl)- 
1,2-ethanediyl]]-blocked (PMN P-13-175;

[[Page 755]]

CAS No. 1279108-20-1) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not being 
manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the 
employer must add the new information to a MSDS before the substance is 
reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance from the employer, or who have received the PMN substance from 
the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of 
the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, 
are provided an MSDS containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[79 FR 63836, Oct. 27, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10772  Fluorinated oxirane polymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
fluorinated oxirane polymer (PMN P-13-176) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance after they have been completely reacted 
(cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of this 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture or processing 
associated with any use of this substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not being 
manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the 
employer must add the new information to a MSDS before the substance is 
reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance from the employer, or who have received the PMN substance from 
the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of 
the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, 
are provided an MSDS containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) and (q).

[[Page 756]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[79 FR 63836, Oct. 27, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10773  Methylene bisacetophenone derivative (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
methylene bisacetophenone derivative (PMN P-13-223) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), and (a)(4). When determining which 
persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 
721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or 
confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or 
administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and 
procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, 
where feasible.
    (A) The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and 
Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an Assigned Protection Factor 
(APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (1) NIOSH-certified power air-purifying respirator with a hood or 
helmet and with appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or 
substance specific) cartridges in combination with HEPA filters.
    (2) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped 
with a loose fitting face piece, hood, or helmet.
    (3) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air 
respirator with a full face piece.
    (B) [Reserved]
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 5).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 63836, Oct. 27, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10774  Amine adduct (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as amine 
adduct (PMN P-13-239) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The 
requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN 
substance after they have been completely reacted (cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f), (k), and (q).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[79 FR 63837, Oct. 27, 2014]

[[Page 757]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10775  Metal hydroxide, treated with alkenyl alkoxy silane 
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as metal 
hydroxide, treated with alkenyl alkoxy silane (PMN P-13-495) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 63837, Oct. 27, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10777  2,4-Hexadienoic acid, 3-(trimethoxysilyl)propyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2,4-hexadienoic 
acid, 3-(trimethoxysilyl)propyl ester (PMN P-13-945; CAS No. 3090-13-9) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(y)(1).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 58).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 63837, Oct. 27, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10778  2,4,Hexadienoic acid, 3-(trimethoxysilyl)propyl ester
(2E,4E)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2,4,hexadienoic 
acid, 3-(trimethoxysilyl)propyl ester (2E,4E)- (PMN P-13-946; CAS No. 
163802-53-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(y)(1).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 58).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 63837, Oct. 27, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10779  Substituted alkene, reaction products with 
isophoronediamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted alkene, reaction products with isophoronediamine (PMN P-14-
28) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(h), (y)(1), and (y)(2).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 49).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 758]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 63838, Oct. 27, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. [emsp14]721.10780  Propaneperoxoic acid, 2,2-dimethyl-,
1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as propaneperoxoic 
acid, 2,2-dimethyl-, 1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutyl ester (PMN P-14-72; CAS 
No. 22288-41-1) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=3).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 75816, Dec. 4, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10781  Fatty acid amide hydrochlorides (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as fatty 
acid amide hydrochlorides (PMNs P-14-89, P-14-90, P-14-91 and P-14-92) 
are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. The significant new use is any use other than 
as a surfactant in asphalt emulsions where the surface water 
concentrations described under the significant new uses in paragraph 
(a)(3)(i) of this section are exceeded.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (3) The significant new uses for any use other than as a surfactant 
in asphalt emulsions:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified 721.90 (a)(4), 
(b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N=110 for PMNs P-14-89 and P-14-92; N=240 for 
PMN P-14-90; N=53 for PMN P-14-91).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific Requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 75816, Dec. 4, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10782  Fatty acid amides (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fatty 
acid amides (PMN P-14-158, P-14-159, P-14-161, P-14-162, and P-14-163) 
are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. The significant new use is any use other than 
as additives in mineral flotation products and as chemical intermediates 
where the surface water concentrations described under the significant 
new uses in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section are exceeded.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (3) The significant new uses for any use other than as additives in 
mineral flotation products and as chemical intermediates:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N=1 for PMNs P-14-158, P-

[[Page 759]]

14-159, P-14-161, and P-14-163; N=140 for PMN P-14-162).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 75816, Dec. 4, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10783  Fatty acid amide acetates (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fatty 
acid amide acetates (PMNs P-14-173, P-14-175, P-14-176, P-14-177, P-14-
178, P-14-179, P-14-180, P-14-181, P-14-182, P-14-183, P-14-184, P-14-
185, P-14-186, P-14-187, P-14-188, P-14-190, P-14-191, P-14-192 and P-
14-193) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. The significant new use is any use other than 
as flotation additives in mineral processing where the surface water 
concentrations described under the significant new uses in paragraph 
(a)(3)(i) of this section are exceeded.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (3) The significant new uses for any use other than as flotation 
additives in mineral processing:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = concentration of concern as 
follows):

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          Concentration
                        PMN No.                             of concern
------------------------------------------------------------------------
P-14-173, P-14-175, P-14-178, P-14-179, P-14-181, P-14-           1 ppb.
 183, P-14-184, P-14-192, P-14-193.....................
P-14-176, P-14-180, P-14-185, P-14-186, P-14-187, P-14-           2 ppb.
 190...................................................
P-14-177, P-14-188.....................................           3 ppb.
P-14-191...............................................           4 ppb.
P-14-182...............................................         140 ppb.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 75816, Dec. 4, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10784  Mixed butyltin mercaptoester sulfides (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as mixed 
butyltin mercaptoester sulfides (PMNs P-14-216, P-14-217, and P-14-218) 
are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this 
section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substances after they have 
been completely reacted (cured) or permanently entrained into a solid 
polyvinyl chloride matrix.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i) through (iv), (a)(3), (b)(concentration set at 
1.0 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) engineering 
control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, 
general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., 
workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented 
to prevent exposure, where feasible.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a) through (e)(concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(v), (g)(1)(viii), 
(g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), 
(g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).

[[Page 760]]

    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use other 
than as a stabilizer in polyvinyl chloride (PVC) at a concentration of 
no greater than 2 percent.
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 0.5).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 63838, Oct. 27, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10785  Mixed methyltin mercaptoester sulfides (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as mixed 
methyltin mercaptoester sulfides (PMN P-14-231) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted 
(cured) or permanently entrained into a solid polyvinyl chloride matrix.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i) through (iv), (a)(3), (b)(concentration set at 
1.0 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63 (a)(1), engineering 
control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, 
general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., 
workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented 
to prevent exposure, where feasible.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a) through (e)(concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(v), (g)(1)(viii), 
(g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), 
(g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use other 
than as a stabilizer in polyvinyl chloride at a concentration of no 
greater than 2 percent.
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 0.5).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 63839, Oct. 27, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10786  Trisubsituted ethoxylated carbomonocycle (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
trisubsituted ethoxylated carbomonocycle (PMN P-14-234) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 24).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 63839, Oct. 27, 2014]

[[Page 761]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10787  Multi-functional novolac type epoxy resin (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as multi-
functional novolac type epoxy resin (PMN P-14-270) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 63839, Oct. 27, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10788  Alkanedioic acids, polymer with substituted propanediol,
alkanediols, and polyethylene glycol and MDI (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkanedioic acids, polymer with substituted propanediol, alkanediols, 
and polyethylene glycol and MDI (PMN P-14-357) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), and (c). When determining which 
persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or 
confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or 
administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and 
procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, 
where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety 
and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an Assigned Protection 
Factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified power air-purifying respirator with a hood or 
helmet and with appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or 
substance specific) cartridges in combination with HEPA filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped 
with a loose fitting face piece, hood, or helmet.
    (C) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air 
respirator with a full face piece.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o) and (y)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[79 FR 63839, Oct. 27, 2014]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10793  Phosphoric acid, iron (2 + ) lithium salt (1:1:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phosphoric acid, 
iron (2 + ) lithium salt (1:1:1) (PMN P-12-17; CAS No. 15365-14-7) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The SNUR does not apply 
to the PMN substance when it is manufactured, pursuant to any of the 
exemptions in 40 CFR 720.30(h) with no commercial purpose separate from 
the substance, mixture, or article of which it is a part.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b), and (c). 
When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as 
required for Sec. 721.63 (a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., 
enclosure or confinement of the operation,

[[Page 762]]

general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., 
workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented 
to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute 
for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an 
Assigned Protection Factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of 
Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified power air-purifying respirator with a hood or 
helmet and with appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or 
substance specific) cartridges in combination with HEPA filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped 
with a loose fitting face piece, hood, or helmet.
    (C) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air 
respirator with a full face piece.
    (1) As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a 
manufacturer or processor may choose to follow the New Chemical Exposure 
Limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order 
for this substance. The NCEL is 2.4 mg/m\3\ as an 8-hour time weighted 
average verified by actual monitoring data.
    (2) [Reserved]
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72.
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that 
this substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not being 
manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the 
employer must add the new information to a MSDS before the substance is 
reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance from the employer, or who have received the PMN substance from 
the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of 
the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, 
are provided an MSDS containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (k) and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (f) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of 
this section.

[80 FR 5467, Feb. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10794  Alkenyl succinate, amine salts (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as alkenyl 
succinate, amine salts (PMNs P-13-212 and P-13-213) are subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. The significant new use is any use other than 
as a metalworking fluid additive.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 5468, Feb. 2, 2015]

[[Page 763]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10795  Amine salt of vegetable oil, polymer with 
cycloaliphatic glycol, hydroxy substituted carboxylic acid,
aliphatic diisocyanate and tetra hydroxy alkane (generic).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as amine 
salt of vegetable oil, polymer with cycloaliphatic glycol, hydroxy 
substituted carboxylic acid, aliphatic diisocyanate and tetra hydroxy 
alkane (PMN P-13-559) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. The significant new use is any use other than 
as a wood sealer or concrete sealer.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 5468, Feb. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10796  Polymer of terephthalic acid and ethyl benzene 
with multi-walled carbon nanotube (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as polymer 
of terephthalic acid and ethyl benzene with multi-walled carbon nanotube 
(PMN P-13-573) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The 
SNUR does not apply to the PMN substance when it is manufactured, 
pursuant to any of the exemptions in 40 CFR 720.30(h) with no commercial 
purpose separate from the substance, mixture, or article of which it is 
a part.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (a)(4), 
(a)(6)(particulate), (b), and (c). When determining which persons are 
reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63 (a)(1) and 
(a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of 
the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. A National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirators with an N-100, P-100, or R-100 cartridge meet the 
requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (k)(a significant new use is any processing 
or use other than described in the consent order) and (q).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a) through (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of 
this section.

[80 FR 5468, Feb. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10797  Polycarbamoylsulfonic acid sodium salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polycarbamoylsulfonic acid sodium salt (PMN P-13-674) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 11).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 764]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 5468, Feb. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10798  Phosphonic acid chloride, diester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
phosphonic acid chloride, diester (PMN P-13-864) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 5).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 5469, Feb. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10799  Substituted dimethyl phenols (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
substituted dimethyl phenols (PMNs P-13-874, P-13-875, P-13-876, and P-
13-877) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant 
new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 10 in aggregate for PMN substances P-13-
874 and P-13-875, and N = 5 in aggregate for the PMN substances P-13-876 
and P-13-877).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 5469, Feb. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10800  2-Propenoic acid, 4-phenoxybutyl ester.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenoic acid, 4-
phenoxybutyl ester (PMN P-13-931; CAS No. 103969-85-3) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 5469, Feb. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10801  Organic phosphonate salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as organic 
phosphonate salt (PMN P-13-936) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 765]]

    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 130).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 5469, Feb. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10802  Quaternized protein/silicone copolymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
quaternized protein/silicone copolymer (PMN P-14-39) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 31).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 5469, Feb. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10803  1,5-Pentanediamine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,5-pentanediamine 
(PMN P-14-70; CAS No. 462-94-2) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 300).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 5469, Feb. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10804  Cashew-nutshell-liquid, polymer with formaldehyde,
reaction products with diethanolamine and diisopropanol amine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as cashew-nutshell-
liquid, polymer with formaldehyde, reaction products with diethanolamine 
and diisopropanol amine (PMN P-14-110; CAS No. 1462343-28-7) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 5469, Feb. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10805  Fatty acid imidazolines (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as fatty 
acid imidazolines. (PMNs P-14-202, P-14-203, P-14-204, P-14-205,

[[Page 766]]

and P-14-206) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 1 in aggregate for PMNs P-14-203 
and P-14-204; N = 1 in aggregate for PMNs P-14-204, P-14-205, P-14-206).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 5470, Feb. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10806  Trimellitic anhydride, polymer with alkanolamine
and tetrahydrophthalic anhydride (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
trimellitic anhydride, polymer with alkanolamine and tetrahydrophthalic 
anhydride (PMN P-14-341) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use of the PMN 
substance other than as a binder for gluing the individual mineral 
fibers together to form a firm product, used industrially in a closed 
system.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 5470, Feb. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10807  Aliphatic ether ethyl alcohol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
aliphatic ether ethyl alcohol (PMN P-14-417) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use other than 
the confidential use as stated in the PMN.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[80 FR 5470, Feb. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10808  Bisxylenol diglycidyl ether polymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
bisxylenol diglycidyl ether polymer (PMN P-14-513) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 767]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 5470, Feb. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10809  Cyclotetrasiloxane, 2,4,6,8-tetrakis[3-[2-
(2-methoxyethoxy)ethoxy]propyl]-2,4,6,8-tetramethyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as cyclotetrasiloxane, 
2,4,6,8-tetrakis[3-[2-(2-methoxyethoxy)ethoxy]propyl]-2,4,6,8-
tetramethyl- (PMN P-14-518; CAS No. 17232-95-0) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 8).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 5470, Feb. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10810  Heterocyclic amine potassium salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
heterocyclic amine potassium salt (PMN P-14-544) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (j)(a significant new use is any use other 
than the confidential use stated in the PMN) and (s).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[80 FR 5470, Feb. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10811  Heterocyclic amine substituted acrylamide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
heterocyclic amine substituted acrylamide (PMN P-14-618) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 23).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 5471, Feb. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10812  Alkylbenzene sulfonic acid (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkylbenzene sulfonic acid (PMN P-12-115) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant

[[Page 768]]

new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements 
of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance that 
have partitioned into oil or petroleum streams following use as an 
interfacial tension reducer for enhanced oil recovery applications.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72(a) through (f), (g)(3), (g)(4)(ii), and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any 
manufacturing, processing, or use of the PMN substance other than as a 
chemical intermediate to prepare an interfacial tension reducer for 
enhanced oil recovery.
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 4).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 26457, May 8, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10813  Benzenesulfonic acid, dimethyl-, alkyl derivatives,
sodium salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
benzenesulfonic acid, dimethyl-, alkyl derivatives, sodium salt (PMNs P-
12-116 and P-13-568) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The 
requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN 
substance that have partitioned into oil or petroleum streams when used 
in enhanced oil recovery applications.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72(a) through (f), (g)(1) (corrosion to the eyes, mucous membranes, 
skin, and lungs), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3), 
(g)(4)(ii), and (g)(5).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (manufacturing, processing, or use of 
the PMN substance other than as an interfacial tension reducer for 
enhanced oil recovery or the confidential use as stated in the consent 
order for P-13-568) and Sec. 721.80(q) (production volume limit as 
stated in the consent order for P-13-568).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 4).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[80 FR 26457, May 8, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10814  2-Propenoic acid, 3-phenyl-, zinc salt (2:1), (2E)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenoic acid, 3-
phenyl-, zinc salt (2:1), (2E)- (PMN P-12-397; CAS No. 18957-59-0) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use of the PMN 
substance other than as a reinforcing additive in polyolefins.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a),

[[Page 769]]

(b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this 
substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 26457, May 8, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10815  Fatty acids, satd. and unsatd alkyl-, esters with 
polyol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fatty 
acids, satd. and unsatd alkyl-, esters with polyol (PMN P-13-139) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use of the PMN 
substance other than as an ingredient in a multipurpose additive in 
gasoline to reduce friction in engines.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 26457, May 8, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10816  Fluoroalkyl acrylate copolymer modified with
polysiloxanes (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
fluoroalkyl acrylate copolymer modified with polysiloxanes (PMNs P-13-
646 and P-13-648) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of the 
substances is any manner or method of manufacture or processing 
associated with any use of the substances without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for the substances, the employer becomes aware that 
the substances may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If the substance(s) are not being 
manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the 
employer must add the new information to a MSDS before the substance(s) 
are reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance(s) from the employer, or who have received the PMN 
substance(s) from the employer within 5 years from the date the employer 
becomes aware of the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) 
of this section, are provided an MSDS containing the information 
required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days 
from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (a significant new use is any use other 
than as allowed by the section 5(e) consent order, which includes 
analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum impurity levels of 
certain fluorinated impurities), and Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of

[[Page 770]]

Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.

[80 FR 26457, May 8, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10817  Fluoroalkyl acrylate copolymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
fluoroalkyl acrylate copolymer (PMNs P-13-647, P-13-649, and P-13-679) 
are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of the 
substances is any manner or method of manufacture or processing 
associated with any use of the substances without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for the substances, the employer becomes aware that 
the substances may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If the substance(s) are not being 
manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the 
employer must add the new information to a MSDS before the substance(s) 
are reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance(s) from the employer, or who have received the PMN 
substance(s) from the employer within 5 years from the date the employer 
becomes aware of the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) 
of this section, are provided an MSDS containing the information 
required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days 
from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (a significant new use is any use other 
than as allowed by the section 5(e) consent order, which includes 
analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum impurity levels of 
certain fluorinated impurities), and Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[80 FR 26458, May 8, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10818  Fluoroalkyl methacrylate copolymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
fluoroalkyl methacrylate copolymer (PMN P-13-678) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of the 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture or processing 
associated with any use of the substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for the substance, the employer becomes aware that 
the substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If the substance is not being 
manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the 
employer must add the new information to a MSDS before the substance is 
reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance from the employer, or who have

[[Page 771]]

received the PMN substance from the employer within 5 years from the 
date the employer becomes aware of the new information described in 
paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, are provided an MSDS containing 
the information required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section 
within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the new 
information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (a significant new use is any use other 
than as allowed by the section 5(e) consent order, which includes 
analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum impurity levels of 
certain fluorinated impurities), and Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[80 FR 26458, May 8, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10819  Zinc carboxylate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as zinc 
carboxylate (PMN P-13-951) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 3).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 26459, May 8, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10820  Phenol, styrenated, reaction products with
polyethylene glycol and 2-[(2-propen-1-yloxy)methyl]oxirane.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phenol, styrenated, 
reaction products with polyethylene glycol and 2-[(2-propen-1-
yloxy)methyl]oxirane (PMN P-14-364; CAS No. 1539128-27-2) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 170).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 26459, May 8, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10821  Quaternary ammonium compounds, tri-C8-10-alkylmethyl,
hydrogen sulfates (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
quaternary ammonium compounds, tri-C8-10-alkylmethyl, hydrogen sulfates 
(PMN P-14-382) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 772]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 26459, May 8, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10822  1,2,3-Propanetriol, homopolymer, dodecanoate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,2,3-propanetriol, 
homopolymer, dodecanoate (PMN P-14-395; CAS Number 74504-64-6) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 18).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 26459, May 8, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10823  2-Propenal, 3-[4-(1-methylethyl)phenyl]-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenal, 3-[4-(1-
methylethyl)phenyl]- (PMN P-14-564; CAS No. 6975-24-2) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 26459, May 8, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10824  Brominated filtration residue (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
brominated filtration residue (PMN P-14-594) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use of the PMN 
substance other than as a feed for bromine recovery unit.
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 26459, May 8, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10825  Fatty acids reaction products with 
polyethylenepolyamine and naphthenic acids (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as fatty 
acids reaction products with polyethylenepolyamine and naphthenic acids 
(PMNs P-14-616 and P-14-617) are subject to reporting under this

[[Page 773]]

section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[80 FR 26460, May 8, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10826  Substituted aminoalkyl nitrile (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted aminoalkyl nitrile (PMN P-14-625) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 18).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 26460, May 8, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10827  Cyclooctadiene metal derivatives (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
cyclooctadiene metal derivatives (PMN P-14-640) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use in non-
enclosed processes or any use other than as a synthetic intermediate.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 26460, May 8, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10828  1,2,3-Propanetriol, homopolymer, alkanoates (generic)
and Glycerides, alkanoate, mono-, di- and tri- (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 1,2,3-
propanetriol, homopolymer, alkanoates (PMNs P-14-792, Chemical A; P-14-
793; and P-14-794) and generically as glycerides, alkanoate, mono-, di- 
and tri- (PMN P-14-792, Chemical B) are subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a),

[[Page 774]]

(b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of 
these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[80 FR 26460, May 8, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10829  Xanthylium, x-[2-(alcoxycarbonyl)phenyl]-bis
(alkylamino)-dimethyl-, x'-[x'' -[hydroxy-x'''-[[[[hydroxy-x''''
-(phenyldiazenyl)-sulfo-2-naphthalenyl] amino]carbonyl]amino]sulfo -
 naphthalenyl]diazenyl]benzoate, sodium salt (generic).

          
    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
xanthylium, x-[2-(alcoxycarbonyl)phenyl]-bis(alkylamino)-dimethyl-, x'-
[x'' -[hydroxy-x'''-[[[[hydroxy-x''''-(phenyldiazenyl)-sulfo-2-
naphthalenyl] amino]carbonyl]amino]sulfo-naphthalenyl]diazenyl]benzoate, 
sodium salt (PMN P-14-800) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 26460, May 8, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10830  2-Butene, 1,1,1,4,4,4-hexafluoro-, (2Z)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-butene, 
1,1,1,4,4,4-hexafluoro-, (2Z)- (PMN P-11-549; CAS No. 692-49-9) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f), (j), and (o).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 32013, June 5, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10831  Aluminum phosphate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as aluminum 
phosphate (PMN P-13-690) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 
The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN 
substance that has been completely reacted (cured) or entrained into a 
polymer matrix.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4) and (a)(6)(1). When determining which persons are 
reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4), 
engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the 
operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. A National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirator with an Assigned Protection Factor (APF) of at least 10 meet 
the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 87).

[[Page 775]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 32013, June 5, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10832  Alkyl triazine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkyl 
triazine (PMN P-13-872) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 130).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 32014, June 5, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10833  Substituted bis 2,6-xylenol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted bis 2,6-xylenol (PMN P-13-930) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance that have been incorporated into an 
article or has been incorporated into a polymer matrix.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), 
(b)(concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). When determining which 
persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or 
confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or 
administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and 
procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, 
where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety 
and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned protection 
factor (APF) of at least 50 meet the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified power air-purifying respirator with a hood or 
helmet and with appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or 
substance specific) cartridges in combination with HEPA filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped 
with a loose fitting facepiece, hood, or helmet.
    (C) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air 
respirator with a full facepiece.
    (ii) Hazard communication. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f)(concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(g)(1)(The PMN substance may cause sensitization, eye irritation, 
internal organ effects, and developmental effects), (g)(2), (g)(3), 
(g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g) and (q).
    (iv) Release to water. (A) Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) N = 6. However the requirements of 
Sec. 721.91(a)(4) do not apply. Instead, if control technologies are in 
place to treat the waste stream containing the PMN substance, the amount 
of the PMN substance reasonably likely to be removed from the waste 
stream by such treatment may be subtracted in calculating the number of 
kilograms releases. No more than 40 percent removal efficiency may be 
attributed to such treatment.
    (B) In lieu of calculating the quotient, monitoring or alternative 
calculations may be used to predict the

[[Page 776]]

surface water concentrations expected to result from the intended 
release of the substance, if the monitoring procedures or calculations 
have been approved for such purposes by EPA.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of 
this section.

[80 FR 32014, June 5, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10834  Heteropolycyclic diacrylate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
heteropolycyclic diacrylate (PMN P-14-20) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), 
(a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). When 
determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as 
required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., 
enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local 
ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace 
policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent 
exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an 
assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of 
Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified power air-purifying respirator with a hood or 
helmet and with appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or 
substance specific) cartridges in combination with HEPA filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped 
with a loose fitting facepiece, hood, or helmet.
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 120).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 32014, June 5, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10835  1,6-Hexanediamine, N1-(6-aminohexyl)-, polymer with
2-(chloromethyl)oxirane, N-(dithiocarboxy) derivs., sodium salts.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,6-Hexanediamine, 
N1-(6-aminohexyl)-, polymer with 2-(chloromethyl)oxirane, N-
(dithiocarboxy) derivs., sodium salts (PMN P-14-66; CAS No. 1459738-70-
5) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 32014, June 5, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10836  Dimethylaminoalkyl alkene amide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 777]]

chemical substance identified generically as dimethylaminoalkyl alkene 
amide (PMN P-14-209) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[80 FR 32015, June 5, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10837  Substituted naphthalene polymer glycidyl ether
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted naphthalene polymer glycidyl ether (PMN P-14-452) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 32015, June 5, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10838  Alkylpolycarboxylic acid, derivative, tris
(fluorinatedalkoxy)alkyl ester salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkylpolycarboxylic acid, derivative, tris(fluorinatedalkoxy)alkyl ester 
salt (PMN P-14-473) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 6).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 32015, June 5, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10839  Tricyclo[3.3.1.13,7]decan-1-amine, N,N-dimethyl-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 
tricyclo[3.3.1.13,7]decan-1-amine, N,N-dimethyl- (PMN P-14-476; CAS No. 
3717-40-6) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 8).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (c) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.

[[Page 778]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 32015, June 5, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10840  Sulfosuccinic acid ester, alkylamine derivs.,
sodium salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
sulfosuccinic acid ester, alkylamine derivs., sodium salt (PMN P-14-510) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 94).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 32015, June 5, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10841  Bismuth nitrate oxide (Bi3(NO3)O4).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as bismuth nitrate 
oxide (Bi<INF>3</INF>(NO<INF>3</INF>)O<INF>4</INF>) (PMN P-14-603; CAS 
No. 1417164-49-8) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(i), and (c). When determining which persons are 
reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4), 
engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the 
operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following 
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirator with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meets 
the minimum requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified air-
purifying elastomeric half-mask respirator equipped with N100 (if oil 
aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters.
    (ii) Industrial commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[80 FR 32015, June 5, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10843  Substituted amide aromatic carboxylic acid,
metal salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
substituted amide aromatic carboxylic acid, metal salt (PMNs P-14-666 
and P-14-668) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[[Page 779]]

    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[80 FR 32016, June 5, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10844  Graphene nanoplatelets having a predominant thickness
of 1-10 layers with lateral dimension predominantly less than 2
microns.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as graphene 
nanoplatelets having a predominant thickness of 1-10 layers with lateral 
dimension predominantly less than 2 microns (PMN P-14-763) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do 
not apply to quantities of the PMN substance that have been embedded or 
incorporated into a polymer matrix that itself has been reacted (cured); 
embedded in a permanent solid polymer form that is not intended to 
undergo further processing, except mechanical processing; or imported 
into an article as defined at 40 CFR 720.3(c).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), 
(a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). When 
determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as 
required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., 
enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local 
ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace 
policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent 
exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators meet the 
requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified power air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face 
respirator equipped with an N-100, P-100, or R-100 cartridge.
    (B) NIOSH-certified power air-purifying particulate respirator with 
an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k), (q), and (y)(1).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[80 FR 32016, June 5, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10845  Methanaminium, N-[4-[[4-(dimethylamino)phenyl] 
phenylmethylene]-2,5 -cyclohexadien-1-ylidene] -N-methyl-,
ethanedioate, ethanedioate (2:2:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as methanaminium, N-[4-
[[4-(dimethylamino)phenyl] phenylmethylene]-2,5-cyclohexadien-1-
ylidene]-N-methyl-, ethanedioate, ethanedioate (2:2:1) (PMN P-14-781; 
CAS No. 2437-29-8) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.

[[Page 780]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 32016, June 5, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10846  Sulfurized hydrocarbon (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
sulfurized hydrocarbon (PMN P-14-811) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is any use where less 
than 80 percent of the low molecular weight species are greater than 
1,000 daltons.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[80 FR 32017, June 5, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10847  Oxiranemethanaminium, N,N,N-trimethyl-, bromide.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 
oxiranemethanaminium, N,N,N-trimethyl-, bromide (PMN P-14-821; CAS No. 
13895-77-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 28).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 32017, June 5, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10848  Aryloxyalkyl amine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
aryloxyalkyl amine (PMN P-14-875) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 44).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 32017, June 5, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10849  Phenol-biphenyl-formaldehyde polycondensate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as phenol-
biphenyl-formaldehyde polycondensate (PMN P-15-115) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 781]]

    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 5).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 32017, June 5, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10850  Polymer of phenol, biphenyl and resorcinol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as polymer 
of phenol, biphenyl and resorcinol (PMN P-15-116) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 5).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 32017, June 5, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10851  Trichloroethylene.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance trichloroethylene (CAS 79-01-6) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) Manufacture or processing for use in a consumer product except 
for use in cleaners and solvent degreasers, film cleaners, hoof 
polishes, lubricants, mirror edge sealants, and pepper spray.
    (b) [Reserved]

[81 FR 20540, Apr. 8, 2016]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10852  Fatty acids compound with cyclohexanamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as fatty 
acids compound with cyclohexanamine (PMNs P-12-69 and P-12-70) are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) and (q).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[80 FR 59604, Oct. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10853  Fluoro-modified acrylic copolymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fluoro-
modified acrylic copolymer (PMN P-12-169) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of the 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture or processing 
associated with any use of the substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for the substance, the

[[Page 782]]

employer becomes aware that the substances may present a risk of injury 
to human health or the environment, the employer must incorporate this 
new information, and any information on methods for protecting against 
such risk, into a MSDS as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days 
from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If the 
substance is not being manufactured, processed, or used in the 
employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to a 
MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance from the employer, or who have received the PMN substance from 
the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of 
the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, 
are provided an MSDS containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (a significant new use is any use other 
than as allowed by the section 5(e) consent order, which includes 
analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum impurity levels of 
certain fluorinated impurities), and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[80 FR 59605, Oct. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10854  Siloxanes and Silicones, alkyl, alky propoxy ethyl,
methyl octyl, alkyl polyfluorooctyl (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
siloxanes and silicones, alkyl, alky propoxy ethyl, methyl octyl, alkyl 
polyfluorooctyl (PMN P-12-351) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of the 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture or processing 
associated with any use of the substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for the substance, the employer becomes aware that 
the substances may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If the substance is not being 
manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the 
employer must add the new information to a MSDS before the substance is 
reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance from the employer, or who have received the PMN substance from 
the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of 
the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, 
are provided an MSDS containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (a significant new use is any use other 
than as allowed by the section 5(e) consent order, which includes 
analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum impurity levels of 
certain fluorinated impurities), and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),

[[Page 783]]

(b), (c), (f), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of 
these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[80 FR 59605, Oct. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10855  Partially fluorinated alcohol, reaction products with 
phosphorus oxide (P[bdi2]O[bdi5]) amine salts (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
partially fluorinated alcohol, reaction products with phosphorus oxide 
(P<INF>2</INF>O<INF>5</INF>), amine salts (PMNs P-12-450 and P-12-451) 
are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of the 
substances is any manner or method of manufacture or processing 
associated with any use of the substances without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for the substances, the employer becomes aware that 
the substances may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If the substance(s) are not being 
manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the 
employer must add the new information to a MSDS before the substance(s) 
are reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance(s) from the employer, or who have received the PMN 
substance(s) from the employer within 5 years from the date the employer 
becomes aware of the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) 
of this section, are provided an MSDS containing the information 
required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days 
from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (a significant new use is any use other 
than as allowed by the section 5(e) consent order, which includes 
analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum impurity levels of 
certain fluorinated impurities), and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b) (1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[80 FR 59605, Oct. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10856  Fatty acids amine salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fatty 
acids amine salt (PMN P-12-520) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k) and (q).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[[Page 784]]

    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[80 FR 59606, Oct. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10857  Organophosphorus polymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
organophosphorus polymer (PMN P-13-292) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[80 FR 59606, Oct. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. [emsp14]721.10858  Fluorinated acid alkylester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
fluorinated acid alkylester (PMN P-13-305) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b) 
(concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). When determining which 
persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or 
confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or 
administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and 
procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, 
where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety 
and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned protection 
factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4): 
Any NIOSH-certified air-purifying full facepiece respirator equipped 
with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f)(concentration set at 1.0 
percent), (g)(1)(The PMN substance may cause central nervous system 
depression, liver effects, endocrine effects), (g)(2), and (g)(5). In 
addition a significant new use of the substances is any manner or method 
of manufacture or processing associated with any use of the substances 
without providing risk notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 
5(e) consent order for the substances, the employer becomes aware that 
the substances may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If the substance(s) are not being 
manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the 
employer must add the new information to a MSDS before the substance(s) 
are reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance(s) from the employer, or who have received the PMN 
substance(s) from the employer within 5 years from the date the employer 
becomes aware of the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) 
of this section, are provided an MSDS containing the information 
required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days 
from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information.

[[Page 785]]

    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (g) and (o). It is a significant new use 
for any chemical substance manufactured using the PMN substance to 
contain residuals of the PMN substance above the level specified in the 
consent order. It is a significant new use to recover and convert, 
capture (destroy), recycle, or reuse the PMN substance below the overall 
efficiency specified in the consent order, when the PMN substance is 
used as an intermediate.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.

[80 FR 59606, Oct. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10859  Quaternary alkyl methyl amine ethoxylate methyl 
chloride (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
quaternary alkyl methyl amine ethoxylate methyl chloride (PMN P-14-563) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=29).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 59607, Oct. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10860  Substituted carboxamide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted carboxamide (PMN P-14-756) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=3).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 59607, Oct. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10861  Phosphoric acid, sodium titanium (4+) salt (3:1:2).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phosphoric acid, 
sodium titanium (4+) salt (3:1:2) (PMN P-14-804; CAS No. 22239-24-3) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=4).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a),

[[Page 786]]

(b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this 
substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 59607, Oct. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10862  Oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl
ether, phosphate; Oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl
ether, phosphate, sodium salt; Oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with 
oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, phosphate, potassium salt;        
Oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, 
phosphate, ammonium salt; Ethanol, 2-amino-, compd. with 2-
methyloxirane polymer with oxirane monohexadecyl ether 
phosphate; and Ethanol, 2,2'2'',-nitrilotris-, compd. with 2-
methyloxirane polymer with oxirane monohexadecyl ether 
phosphate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified as oxirane, 2-methyl-, 
polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, phosphate (P-15-1; CAS No. 
73361-29-2); oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl 
ether, phosphate, sodium salt (P-15-2; CAS No. 151688-56-1); oxirane, 2-
methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, phosphate, potassium 
salt (P-15-3; CAS No. 1456802-88-2); oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with 
oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, phosphate, ammonium salt (P-15-4; CAS No. 
1456802-89-3); ethanol, 2-amino-, compd. with 2-methyloxirane polymer 
with oxirane monohexadecyl ether phosphate (P-15-5; CAS No, 1456803-12-
5); and ethanol, 2,2''2'',-nitrilotris-, compd. with 2-methyloxirane 
polymer with oxirane monohexadecyl ether phosphate (PMN P-15-6; CAS No. 
1456803-14-7) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=18 in aggregate).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 59607, Oct. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10863  Nitrile amine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as nitrile 
amine (PMN P-15-25) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 59607, Oct. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10864  1,3-propanediamine, N1, N1-alkyl (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 1,3-
propanediamine, N1, N1-alkyl (PMN P-15-26) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=32).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.

[[Page 787]]

    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 59607, Oct. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10865  2-Pyridinecarboxylic acid, 4,5,6-trichloro-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-pyridinecarboxylic 
acid, 4,5,6-trichloro- (PMN P-15-36; CAS No. 496849-77-5) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=30).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 59608, Oct. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10866  Imidazoliurn, polymer with cyclic anhydride and
alkenoic acid, alkali salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
imidazoliurn, polymer with cyclic anhydride and alkenoic acid, alkali 
salt (PMN P-15-61) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[80 FR 59608, Oct. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10867  Hydrochlorofluorocarbon (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
hydrochlorofluorocarbon. (PMN P-15-98) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
40 CFR 721.63 (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b)(concentration set at 
1.0 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4), engineering 
control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, 
general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., 
workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented 
to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute 
for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an 
assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 25 meet the requirements of 
Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified power air-purifying respirator with a hood or 
helmet and with appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or 
substance specific) cartridges in combination with HEPA filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped 
with a loose fitting facepiece, hood, or helmet.
    (ii) Industrial commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (g).

[[Page 788]]

    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=99).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 59608, Oct. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10868  Alkylalkenoic acid copolymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
alkylalkenoic acid copolymer (PMN P-15-136) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (f), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 59608, Oct. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10869  D-Glucitol, alkylamino-N-acyl derivs. (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as D-
glucitol, alkylamino-N-acyl derivs. (PMN P-15-141) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=14).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 59608, Oct. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10870  Cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, dialkyl ester (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, dialkyl ester (PMN P-15-150) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=10).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 59609, Oct. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10872  Heteropolycyclic, polymer with alkanedioic acid, 
di-alkenoate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
heteropolycyclic, polymer with alkanedioic acid, di-alkenoate (PMN P-15-
242) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

[[Page 789]]

    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(ii), 
(a)(6)(v), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely 
to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering 
control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, 
general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., 
workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented 
to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute 
for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an 
assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of 
Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified power air-purifying respirator with a hood or 
helmet and with appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or 
substance specific) cartridges in combination with HEPA filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped 
with a loose fitting facepiece, hood, or helmet.
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified 721.90 (a)(4), 
(b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=120).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, 
importers, and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[80 FR 59609, Oct. 2, 2015]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10875  Alkali transition metal oxide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkali 
transition metal oxide (PMN P-11-150) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities 
of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted (cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. (A) Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b)(concentration 
set at 0.1 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are 
reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4), 
engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the 
operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following 
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirators with an Assigned Protection Factor (APF) of at least 10 meet 
the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (1) Any NIOSH-certified air-purifying elastomeric half-mask 
respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filters.
    (2) Any appropriate NIOSH-certified N100 (if oil aerosols absent), 
R100, or P100 filtering facepiece respirator.
    (3) Any NIOSH-certified air-purifying full facepiece respirator 
equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters.
    (4) Any NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied air 
respirator equipped with a half-mask.
    (5) Any NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) self-contained 
breathing apparatus (SCBA) equipped with a half-mask.
    (B) As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a 
manufacturer or processor may choose to follow the New Chemical Exposure 
Limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order 
for this substance. The NCEL is 2.4 mg/m\3\ as an 8-hour time weighted 
average (TWA) verified by actual monitoring data.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a) through (e)(concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), 
(g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(viii), 
(g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv)(use respiratory 
protection, or maintain workplace airborne concentrations at or below an 
8-hour time-weighted average of 2.4 mg/m\3\), and (g)(5).

[[Page 790]]

    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (d) and (f) through (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of 
this section.

[81 FR 30470, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30470, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10875 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10876  Perfluoroalkyl substituted alkyl sulfonate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
perfluoroalkyl substituted alkyl sulfonate (PMN P-11-484) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80 (k)(analysis and reporting and limitations of 
maximum impurity levels of certain fluorinated impurities; and use other 
described in the consent order), (o)(use in a consumer product that 
could be spray applied), and (q).
    (ii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85. 
Incineration of wastes in an incinerator operating at the temperature of 
at least 1,000 degrees Celsius and a residence time of minimum of 2 
seconds. Any tank or vessel washings, residues from transport vessels or 
tanks, and similar materials that are captured and retained in the 
normal course of manufacturing and processing for re-use in 
manufacturing of the PMN substance or products made from the PMN 
substance are exempt from this method of disposal.
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1) apply to the PMN substance except under 
the terms specified in the consent order.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), (j), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and 
(iii) of this section.

[81 FR 30470, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30470, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10876 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10877  Polyfluorinated alkyl quaternary ammonium chloride
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyfluorinated alkyl quaternary ammonium chloride (PMN P-11-543) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(k)(analysis and reporting and limitations of 
maximum impurity levels of certain fluorinated impurities; and use other 
described in the consent order), (o)(use in a consumer product that 
could be spray applied), and (q).
    (ii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85. 
Incineration of wastes in an incinerator operating at the temperature of 
at least 1,000 degrees Celsius and a residence time of minimum of 2 
seconds. Any tank or vessel washings, residues from transport vessels or 
tanks, and similar materials that are captured and retained in the 
normal course of manufacturing and processing for re-use in 
manufacturing of the PMN substance or products

[[Page 791]]

made from the PMN substance are exempt from this method of disposal.
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1) apply to the PMN substance except under 
the terms specified in the consent order.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), (j), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and 
(iii) of this section.

[81 FR 30470, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30470, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10877 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10878  Polyfluorinatedalkylsulfonyl substituted alkane 
derivative (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyfluorinatedalkylsulfonyl substituted alkane derivative (PMN P-14-67) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this 
rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after it has been 
completely reacted (cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72. A significant new use of the substance is any manner or method 
of manufacture or processing associated with any use of the substance 
without providing risk notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under TSCA section 5(e) 
consent order for the substance, the employer becomes aware that the 
substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If the substance is not being 
manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the 
employer must add the new information to a MSDS before the substance is 
reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance from the employer, or who have received the PMN substance from 
the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of 
the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, 
are provided an MSDS containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80 (k) and (o)(use in a consumer product that 
could be spray applied), and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[81 FR 30471, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30471, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10878 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10879  1-Octadecanaminium, N-(3-chloro-2-hydroxypropyl)
-N,N-dimethyl-, chloride (1:1).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-octadecanaminium, 
N-(3-chloro-2-hydroxypropyl)-N,N-dimethyl-, chloride (1:1) (PMN P-14-
125; CAS No. 3001-63-6) is subject to reporting under this

[[Page 792]]

section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=2).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30471, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30471, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10879 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10880  Fatty acid rxn products with aminoalkylamines 
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as fatty 
acid rxn products with aminoalkylamines (PMNs P-14-153, P-14-154, P-15-
79, and P-15-80) are subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use of the substances is 
any use other than as chemical intermediates, additives for flotation 
products, or adhesion promoters for use in asphalt applications where 
the surface water concentrations described under paragraph (a)(3)(i) of 
this section are exceeded.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (3) The significant new uses for any use other than as chemical 
intermediated, additives for flotation products, or adhesion promoters 
for use in asphalt applications are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.90 
(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30471, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30471, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10880 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10881  Fatty acid amides (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as fatty 
acid amides (PMNs P-14-155 and P-14-156) are subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use of the substances is 
any use other than as chemical intermediates, additives for flotation 
products, or adhesion promoters for use in asphalt applications where 
the surface water concentrations described under paragraph (a)(3)(i) of 
this section are exceeded.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (3) The significant new uses for any use other than as chemical 
intermediated, additives for flotation products, or adhesion promoters 
for use in asphalt applications are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=2 for P-14-155 and N=3 for P-14-
156).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.

[[Page 793]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30471, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30471, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10881 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10882  Trialkylammonium borodibenzoate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
trialkylammonium borodibenzoate (PMN P-14-198) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f) and (j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[81 FR 30472, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30472, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10882 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10883  Fatty ester derivatives, reaction products with 
alkanolamine, hydroxylated, borated (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fatty 
ester derivatives, reaction products with alkanolamine, hydroxylated, 
borated (PMN P-14-324) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use of the substance is a 
use other than as a lubricating oil additive.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30472, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30472, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10883 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10884  Benzenepropanol, 1-benzoate.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as benzenepropanol, 1-
benzoate (PMN P-14-397; CAS No. 60045-26-3) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use of the substance is use 
other than as a plasticizer in adhesives for food-product packaging; a 
diluents-type plasticizer in plastisol; a coalescent in architectural 
paints and coating; and a fragrance carrier in fragrances.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30472, May 16, 2016]

[[Page 794]]


    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30472, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10884 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10885  Alcohols, C<INF>12-22</INF>, distn. residues.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as alcohols, 
C<INF>12-22</INF>, distn. residues (PMN P-14-448; CAS No. 1476777-83-9) 
is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use of the substance is any 
use where the cumulative molecular weights of the C<INF>12</INF> and 
C<INF>14</INF> components exceed 2 percent by weight of the overall 
molecular weight of the PMN substance.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30472, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30472, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10885 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10886  Phosphoric acid, mixed Bu and decyl and octyl 
and 2-(2-phenoxyethoxy)ethyl and 2-phenoxyethyl esters.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phosphoric acid, 
mixed Bu and decyl and octyl and 2-(2-phenoxyethoxy)ethyl and 2-
phenoxyethyl esters (PMN P-14-501; CAS No. 1502809-48-4) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=4).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30472, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30472, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10886 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10887  Phosphoric acid, mixed Bu and decyl and octyl and 
2-(2-phenoxyethoxy)ethyl and 2-phenoxyethyl esters, potassium salts.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phosphoric acid, 
mixed Bu and decyl and octyl and 2-(2-phenoxyethoxy)ethyl and 2-
phenoxyethyl esters, potassium salts (PMN P-14-502; CAS No. 1502809-56-
4) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=4).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30472, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30472, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10887 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.

[[Page 795]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10888  Siloxanes and Silicones, 3-[(2-aminoethyl)amino)propyl 
Me, di-Me, reaction products with cadmium zinc selenide sulfide, 
lauric acid and oleylamine.
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as siloxanes and 
silicones, 3-[(2-aminoethyl)amino)propyl Me, di-Me, reaction products 
with cadmium zinc selenide sulfide, lauric acid and oleylamine (PMN P-
15-59; CAS No. 1623456-05-2) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b), and (c). When determining which 
persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63 
(a)(1) engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of 
the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(p) (three months and eighteen months). A 
significant new use of the substance is manufacture, process, or use the 
chemical substance other than as a down converter for an optical filter 
for light emitting diodes used in displays, or other than in a liquid 
formulation.
    (iii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85. It is a 
significant new use to dispose of the chemical substance other than by 
incineration in a permitted hazardous waste incinerator.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e), (i), and (j) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30473, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30473, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10888 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10889  Dodecanoic acid, reaction products with cadmium zinc
selenide sulfide and oleylamine.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as dodecanoic acid, 
reaction products with cadmium zinc selenide sulfide and oleylamine (PMN 
P-15-60; CAS No. 1773514-92-3) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b), and (c). When determining which 
persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 
721.63(a)(1) engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or 
confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or 
administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and 
procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, 
where feasible.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80. It is a significant new use to 
manufacture, process, or use the chemical substance other than as a 
chemical intermediate or other than in a liquid formulation.
    (iii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85. It is a 
significant new use to dispose of the chemical substance other than by 
incineration in a permitted hazardous waste incinerator.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e), (i) and (j) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30473, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30473, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10889 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.

[[Page 796]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10890  Phosphonic acid, P-tetradecyl-, reaction products 
with cadmium selenide (CdSe).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as phosphonic acid, P-
tetradecyl-, reaction products with cadmium selenide (CdSe) (PMN P-15-
104; CAS No. 1773514-66-1) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b), and (c). When determining which 
persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 
721.63(a)(1) engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or 
confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or 
administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and 
procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, 
where feasible.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80. It is a significant new use to 
manufacture, process, or use the chemical substance other than as a 
chemical intermediate or other than in a liquid formulation.
    (iii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85 It is a 
significant new use to dispose of the chemical substance other than by 
incineration in a permitted hazardous waste incinerator.
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30473, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30473, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10890 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10891  Alkyl silicate, polymer with 2-(chloromethyl)oxirane
and 4,4[min]-(1-methylethylidene)bis[phenol], alkoxylated (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkyl 
silicate, polymer with 2-(chloromethyl)oxirane and 4,4[min]-(1-
methylethylidene)bis[phenol], alkoxylated (PMN P-15-81) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in 40 CFR 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), 
and (c).
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30473, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30473, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10891 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10892  Reaction product of a mixture of aromatic dianhydrides
and aliphatic esters with an aromatic diamine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as reaction 
product of a mixture of aromatic dianhydrides and aliphatic esters with 
an aromatic diamine (PMN P-15-109) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=11).
    (ii) [Reserved]

[[Page 797]]

    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30474, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30474, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10892 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10893  Fatty acids, tall-oil, reaction products with an 
ether and triethylenetetramine (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fatty 
acids, tall-oil, reaction products with an ether and 
triethylenetetramine (PMN P-15-111) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(f) and (j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i), are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[81 FR 30474, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30474, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10893 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10894  Substituted benzyl acrylate (generic)

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
substituted benzyl acrylate (PMN P-15-120) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30474, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30474, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10894 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10895  Fluoroalkyl acrylate copolymer (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as fluoroalkyl acrylate 
copolymer (PMN P-15-154) is subject to reporting under this section for 
the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.72. A significant new use of the substance is any manner or method 
of manufacture or processing associated with any use of the substance 
without providing risk notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under TSCA section 5(e) 
consent order for the substance, the employer becomes aware that the 
substance may present a risk of injury to human

[[Page 798]]

health or the environment, the employer must incorporate this new 
information, and any information on methods for protecting against such 
risk, into a MSDS as described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from 
the time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If the 
substance is not being manufactured, processed, or used in the 
employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to a 
MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance from the employer, or who have received the PMN substance from 
the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of 
the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, 
are provided an MSDS containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k) (analysis and reporting and limitations 
of maximum impurity levels of certain fluorinated impurities), and (q).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[81 FR 30474, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30474, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10895 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10896  1-Hexanol, 6-mercapto-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 1-hexanol, 6-
mercapto-. (PMN P-15-176; CAS No.1633-78-9) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=8).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30474, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30474, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10896 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10897  Phenol, 2,2[min]-[1,2-disubstituted-1,2-ethanediyl]
bis(iminomethylene)bis[substituted- (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance generically identified generically 
as phenol, 2,2[min]-[1,2-disubstituted-1,2-ethanediyl] 
bis(iminomethylene)bis[substituted- (PMN P-15-177) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), and (a)(3).
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[[Page 799]]

    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[81 FR 30475, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30475, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10897 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10898  Carbomonocycles, polymer with substituted 
heteromonocycle, succinate, methyl acrylate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
carbomonocycles, polymer with substituted heteromonocycle, succinate, 
methyl acrylate (PMN P-15-188) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use of the substance is any 
use other than as a pigment-wetting resin for UV-curable coatings.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30475, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30475, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10898 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10899  Halogenated alkyl trimethylaminium halide (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
halogenated alkyl trimethylaminium halide (PMN P-15-190) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (b)(concentration set at 0.1 percent) and (c). 
When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as 
required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., 
enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local 
ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace 
policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent 
exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an 
assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of 
Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified power air- purifying respirator with a hood or 
helmet and with appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or 
substance specific) cartridges in combination with HEPA filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped 
with a loose fitting facepiece, hood, or helmet.
    (C) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air 
respirator with a full facepiece.
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=88).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30475, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30475, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10899 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10900  Titanium salt, reaction products with silica (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The

[[Page 800]]

chemical substance identified generically as titanium salt, reaction 
products with silica (PMN P-15-252) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), and (c). When determining which 
persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or 
confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or 
administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and 
procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, 
where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety 
and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned protection 
factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying elastomeric half-mask respirator 
equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 
filtering facepiece respirator.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (d) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30475, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30475, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10900 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10901  Formaldehyde, reaction products with aniline and
aromatic mono- and di-phenol mixture (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
formaldehyde, reaction products with aniline and aromatic mono- and di-
phenol mixture (PMN P-15-272) is subject to reporting under this section 
for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this 
section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30476, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30476, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10901 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10902  Functionalized carbon nanotubes (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
functionalized carbon nanotubes (PMN P-15-276) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted 
(cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), and (a)(3). When determining which persons are 
reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1), 
engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the 
operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use is manufacture, 
process, or use of the

[[Page 801]]

PMN substance other than in a liquid formulation. A significant new use 
is use other than as a thin film for electronic device applications or 
any use involving an application method that generates a vapor, mist, or 
aerosol unless such application method occurs in an enclosed process. An 
enclosed process is defined as an operation that is designed and 
operated so that there is no release associated with normal or routine 
production processes into the environment of any substance present in 
the operation. An operation with inadvertent or emergency pressure 
relief releases remains an enclosed process so long as measures are 
taken to prevent worker exposure to and environmental contamination from 
the releases.
    (iii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85(a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e), (i), (j), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30476, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30476, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10902 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10903  Acrylated mixed metal oxides (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
acrylated mixed metal oxides (PMN P-15-295) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted 
(cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), and (a)(3). When determining which persons are 
reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(1), 
engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the 
operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(v)(1), (v)(2), (w)(1), (w)(2), (x)(1), 
(x)(2), and (y)(1).
    (iii) Disposal. Requirements as specified in Sec. 721.85(a)(1), 
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2).
    (iv) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e), (i), (j), and (k) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30476, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30476, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10903 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10904  Phenol, 1,1-dimethylalkyl derivatives (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically phenol, 
1,1-dimethylalkyl derivatives (PMN P-15-306) is subject to reporting 
under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=13).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a),

[[Page 802]]

(b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this 
substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30476, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30476, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10904 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10905  Butanedioic acid, 2-methylene-, dialkyl ester
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
butanedioic acid, 2-methylene-, dialkyl ester (PMN P-15-319) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30477, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30477, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10905 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10906  Magnesium alkaryl sulfonate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
magnesium alkaryl sulfonate (PMN P-15-324) is subject to reporting under 
this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) 
of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use of the substance is any 
use other than as a detergent additive in crankcase lubricant 
applications.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30477, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30477, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10906 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10907  Polyfluorohydrocarbon (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyfluorohydrocarbon (PMN P-15-326) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j) and (o).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[81 FR 30477, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30477, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10907 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.

[[Page 803]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10908  Aluminum calcium oxide salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as aluminum 
calcium oxide salt (PMN P-15-328) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to 
quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted 
(cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b), and (c). When 
determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as 
required for Sec. 721.63 (a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., 
enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local 
ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace 
policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent 
exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an 
Assigned Protection Factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of 
Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified power air-purifying respirator with a hood or 
helmet and with appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or 
substance specific) cartridges in combination with HEPA filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped 
with a loose fitting face piece, hood, or helmet.
    (C) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air 
respirator with a full face piece. As an alternative to the respiratory 
requirements listed here, a manufacturer or processor may choose to 
follow the New Chemical Exposure Limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the 
TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 5 mg/
m\3\ as an 8-hour time weighted average verified by actual monitoring 
data.
    (ii) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in 
Sec. 721.72(a) trhough (f)(concentration set at 1.0 percent), 
(g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(When using this substance avoid breathing the 
substance, and use respiratory protection, or maintain workplace 
airborne concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-weighted average of 5 
mg/m\3\.) and (g)(5).
    (iii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (d) and (f) through and (i) are applicable to 
manufacturers and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of 
this section.

[81 FR 30477, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30477, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10908 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10909  Polyalkyltrisiloxane (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyalkyltrisiloxane (PMN P-15-332) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (b)(concentration 
set at 1.0 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are 
reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4), 
engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the 
operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following 
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet 
the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):

[[Page 804]]

    (A) NIOSH-certified power air- purifying respirator with a hood or 
helmet and with appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or 
substance specific) cartridges in combination with HEPA filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped 
with a loose fitting facepiece, hood, or helmet.
    (C) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air 
respirator with a full facepiece.
    (ii) Industrial commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(h).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=4).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30477, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30477, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10909 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10910  Oxirane, 2,2[min]-[[1-[4-[1-methyl-1-[4-
(2-oxiranylmethoxy)phenyl] ethyl]phenyl]ethylidene]bis
(4,1-phenyleneoxymethylene)]bis- (P-15-356, Chemical A).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as oxirane, 2,2[min]-
[[1-[4-[1-methyl-1-[4-(2-oxiranylmethoxy)phenyl] 
ethyl]phenyl]ethylidene]bis(4,1-phenyleneoxymethylene)]bis- (PMN P-15-
356, Chemical A; CAS No. 115254-47-2) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use of the substance is any 
use other than as an additive in polymer formulation for electronics.
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30478, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30478, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10910 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10911  2-Propanol, 1,3-bis[4-[1-[4-[1-methyl-1-[4-
(2-oxiranylmethoxy)phenyl] ethyl]phenyl]-1-[4-(2-oxiranylmethoxy)
phenyl] ethyl]phenoxy]- (P-15-356, Chemical B).
          

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propanol, 1,3-
bis[4-[1-[4-[1-methyl-1-[4-(2-oxiranylmethoxy)phenyl] ethyl]phenyl]-1-
[4-(2-oxiranylmethoxy)phenyl] ethyl]phenoxy]- (PMN P-15-356, Chemical B; 
CAS No. 180063-56-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use of the substance is any 
use other than as an additive in polymer formulation for electronics.
    (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.

[[Page 805]]

    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30478, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30478, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10911 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10912  Aliphatic acrylate (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
aliphatic acrylate (PMN P-15-363) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30478, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30478, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10912 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10913  Diisocyanato hexane, homopolymer, alkanoic acid-
polyalkylene glycol ether with substituted alkane (3:1) reaction
products-blocked (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
diisocyanato hexane, homopolymer, alkanoic acid-polyalkylene glycol 
ether with substituted alkane (3:1) reaction products-blocked (PMN P-15-
378) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(ii), and (c). When determining which persons are 
reasonably likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4), 
engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the 
operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following 
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet 
the requirements of Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified power air-purifying respirator with a hood or 
helmet and with appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or 
substance specific) cartridges in combination with HEPA filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped 
with a loose fitting facepiece, hood, or helmet.
    (C) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air 
respirator with a full facepiece.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(o).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (d) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30478, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30478, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10913 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10914  Polyitaconic acid, sodium zinc salt (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polyitaconic acid, sodium zinc salt (PMN P-15-382) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:

[[Page 806]]

    (i) Industrial commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use of the substance is any 
use other than as an odor neutralization for pet litter and cleaning 
hard surface surfaces, fabrics, skin and hair; an odor neutralization 
for air car; and an odor neutralization for waste processing and solid 
waste management in paper, oil, gas, mining, agriculture, food and 
municipal industries.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30479, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30479, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10914 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10915  Fatty acid esters with polyols polyalkyl ethers
(generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fatty 
acid esters with polyols polyalkyl ethers (PMN P-15-411) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=30).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30479, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30479, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10915 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10916  2,7-Naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-amino-3-
[substituted]-5-hydroxy-6-[(1E)-2-phenyldiazenyl]-, lithium salt
(1:3) (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 2,7-
naphthalenedisulfonic acid, 4-amino-3-[substituted]-5-hydroxy-6-[(1E)-2-
phenyldiazenyl]-, lithium salt (1:3) (PMN P-15-435) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use of the substance is any 
use other that in a liquid formulation.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30479, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30479, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10916 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10917  Polymethylsiloxane, distillation residues (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
polymethylsiloxane, distillation residues (PMN P-15-492) is subject to 
reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), 
(a)(6)(vi), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably 
likely to be exposed as required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4),

[[Page 807]]

engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the 
operations, general and local ventilation) or administrative control 
measure (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered 
and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following 
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified 
respirator with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meets 
the minimum requirements for Sec. 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified powered 
air-purifying respirator with a hood or helmet and with appropriate gas-
vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or substance specific) cartridges.
    (ii) Industrial commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=1).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30479, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30479, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10917 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10918  Perfluorobutanesulfonamide and polyoxyalkylene 
containing polyurethane (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
perfluorobutanesulfonamide and polyoxyalkylene containing polyurethane 
(PMN P-15-502) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The 
requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN 
substance after it has been completely reacted (cured).
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Hazard communication program. A significant new use of the 
substance is any manner or method of manufacture or processing 
associated with any use of the substance without providing risk 
notification as follows:
    (A) If as a result of the test data required under TSCA section 5(e) 
consent order for the substance, the employer becomes aware that the 
substances may present a risk of injury to human health or the 
environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any 
information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a MSDS as 
described in Sec. 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information. If the substance is not being 
manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the 
employer must add the new information to a MSDS before the substance is 
reintroduced into the workplace.
    (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN 
substance from the employer, or who have received the PMN substance from 
the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of 
the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, 
are provided an MSDS containing the information required under paragraph 
(a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer 
becomes aware of the new information.
    (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements 
as specified in Sec. 721.80(k).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers 
and processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of 
this section.

[81 FR 30479, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30479, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10918 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.

[[Page 808]]


<R05>
Sec. 721.10919  Quaternary ammonium compounds, (3-chloro-2-
hydroxypropyl)coco alkyldimethyl, chlorides.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as quaternary ammonium 
compounds, (3-chloro-2-hydroxypropyl)coco alkyldimethyl, chlorides (PMN 
P-15-542; CAS No. 690995-44-9) is subject to reporting under this 
section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of 
this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=24).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30480, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30480, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10919 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10920  Modified diphenylmethane diisocyanate prepolymer 
with polyol (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as modified 
diphenylmethane diisocyanate prepolymer with polyol (PMN P-15-559) is 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80. A significant new use of the substance is 
manufacture of the substance where the average molecular weight is below 
7,500 daltons, and where any molecular weight species is below 1,000 
daltons.
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30480, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30480, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10920 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10921  2-Furancarboxyaldehyde, 5-(chloromethyl)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-
furancarboxyaldehyde, 5-(chloromethyl)- (PMN P-15-573; CAS No. 1623-88-
7) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new 
uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(v), and (c). When 
determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as 
required for Sec. 721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., 
enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local 
ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace 
policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent 
exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an 
assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50 meet the requirements of 
Sec. 721.63(a)(4):
    (A) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator with a tight-
fitting half mask and HEPA filters.
    (B) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped 
with a tight-fitting half mask.
    (C) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air 
respirator equipped with a full facepiece.

[[Page 809]]

    (ii) Industrial commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g) (chemical intermediate use in a continuous 
reaction process such that no greater than 50 kilograms is present in 
the workplace at a given time) and (s)(15,000 kilograms).
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a) through (e) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30480, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30480, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10921 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10922  1,2,4,5,7,8-Hexoxonane, 3,6,9-trimethyl-, 
3,6,9-tris(alkyl) derivs. (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 
11,2,4,5,7,8-hexoxonane, 3,6,9-trimethyl-, 3,6,9-tris(alkyl) derivs. 
(PMN P-15-607) is subject to reporting under this section for the 
significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(j).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.
    (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of 
this section.

[81 FR 30480, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30480, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10922 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10923  9-Octadecen-1-amine, hydrochloride (1:1), (9Z)-.

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified as 9-octadecen-1-amine, 
hydrochloride (1:1), (9Z)- (PMN P-15-671; CAS No. 41130-29-4) is subject 
to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=1).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of this substance.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30481, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30481, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10923 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.


<R05>
Sec. 721.10924  Vegetable fatty acid alkyl esters (generic).

    (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to 
reporting. (1) The chemical substances identified generically as 
vegetable fatty acid alkyl esters (PMNs P-15-689 and P-15-690) are 
subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses 
described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
    (2) The significant new uses are:
    (i) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as 
specified in Sec. 721.80(g).
    (ii) [Reserved]
    (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part 
apply to

[[Page 810]]

this section except as modified by this paragraph.
    (1) Recordkeeping. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in Sec. 
721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and 
processors of these substances.
    (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. 
The provisions of Sec. 721.185 apply to this section.

[81 FR 30481, May 16, 2016]

    Effective Date Note: At 81 FR 30481, May 16, 2016, Sec. 721.10924 
was added, effective July 15, 2016.

[[Page 811]]


<R02>
                              FINDING AIDS


<R03>

  --------------------------------------------------------------------

  A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and 
an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in 
the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations 
which is published separately and revised annually.

  Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
  Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
  List of CFR Sections Affected

[[Page 813]]


<R03>
                    Table of CFR Titles and Chapters


<R04>

                      (Revised as of July 1, 2016)

                      Title 1--General Provisions

         I  Administrative Committee of the Federal Register 
                (Parts 1--49)
        II  Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50--299)
       III  Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 
                300--399)
        IV  Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400--500)

                    Title 2--Grants and Agreements

            Subtitle A--Office of Management and Budget Guidance 
                for Grants and Agreements
         I  Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide 
                Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2--199)
        II  Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200--
                299)
            Subtitle B--Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and 
                Agreements
       III  Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300--
                399)
        IV  Department of Agriculture (Parts 400--499)
        VI  Department of State (Parts 600--699)
       VII  Agency for International Development (Parts 700--799)
      VIII  Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800--899)
        IX  Department of Energy (Parts 900--999)
         X  Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000--1099)
        XI  Department of Defense (Parts 1100--1199)
       XII  Department of Transportation (Parts 1200--1299)
      XIII  Department of Commerce (Parts 1300--1399)
       XIV  Department of the Interior (Parts 1400--1499)
        XV  Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500--1599)
     XVIII  National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 
                1800--1899)
        XX  United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 
                2000--2099)
      XXII  Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 
                2200--2299)
     XXIII  Social Security Administration (Parts 2300--2399)
      XXIV  Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400--2499)
       XXV  National Science Foundation (Parts 2500--2599)
      XXVI  National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 
                2600--2699)
     XXVII  Small Business Administration (Parts 2700--2799)

[[Page 814]]

    XXVIII  Department of Justice (Parts 2800--2899)
      XXIX  Department of Labor (Parts 2900--2999)
       XXX  Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000--3099)
      XXXI  Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100--
                3199)
     XXXII  National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200--3299)
    XXXIII  National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300--
                3399)
     XXXIV  Department of Education (Parts 3400--3499)
      XXXV  Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500--
                3599)
     XXXVI  Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive 
                Office of the President (Parts 3600--3699)
    XXXVII  Peace Corps (Parts 3700--3799)
     LVIII  Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800--5899)
       LIX  Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900--
                5999)

                        Title 3--The President

         I  Executive Office of the President (Parts 100--199)

                           Title 4--Accounts

         I  Government Accountability Office (Parts 1--199)

                   Title 5--Administrative Personnel

         I  Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1--1199)
        II  Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200--1299)
       III  Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300--1399)
        IV  Office of Personnel Management and Office of the 
                Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400--
                1499)
         V  The International Organizations Employees Loyalty 
                Board (Parts 1500--1599)
        VI  Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 
                1600--1699)
      VIII  Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800--1899)
        IX  Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900--1999)
        XI  Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100--2199)
       XIV  Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of 
                the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal 
                Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400--2499)
       XVI  Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600--2699)
       XXI  Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100--3199)
      XXII  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200--
                3299)
     XXIII  Department of Energy (Parts 3300--3399)
      XXIV  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400--
                3499)
       XXV  Department of the Interior (Parts 3500--3599)
      XXVI  Department of Defense (Parts 3600--3699)
    XXVIII  Department of Justice (Parts 3800--3899)

[[Page 815]]

      XXIX  Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900--3999)
       XXX  Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000--
                4099)
      XXXI  Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100--4199)
    XXXIII  Overseas Private Investment Corporation (Parts 4300--
                4399)
     XXXIV  Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400--4499)
      XXXV  Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500--4599)
     XXXVI  Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600--4699)
    XXXVII  Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700--4799)
        XL  Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000--5099)
       XLI  Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100--
                5199)
      XLII  Department of Labor (Parts 5200--5299)
     XLIII  National Science Foundation (Parts 5300--5399)
       XLV  Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500--
                5599)
      XLVI  Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600--5699)
     XLVII  Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700--5799)
    XLVIII  Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800--5899)
      XLIX  Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900--5999)
         L  Department of Transportation (Parts 6000--6099)
       LII  Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200--
                6299)
      LIII  Department of Education (Parts 6300--6399)
       LIV  Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400--6499)
        LV  National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500--6599)
       LVI  National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600--
                6699)
      LVII  General Services Administration (Parts 6700--6799)
     LVIII  Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
                (Parts 6800--6899)
       LIX  National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 
                6900--6999)
        LX  United States Postal Service (Parts 7000--7099)
       LXI  National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100--7199)
      LXII  Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200--
                7299)
     LXIII  Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300--7399)
      LXIV  Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400--7499)
       LXV  Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 
                7500--7599)
      LXVI  National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 
                7600--7699)
     LXVII  Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700--
                7799)
    LXVIII  Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800--7899)
      LXIX  Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900--7999)
       LXX  Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the 
                District of Columbia (Parts 8000--8099)
      LXXI  Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100--8199)
    LXXIII  Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300--8399)
     LXXIV  Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission 
                (Parts 8400--8499)

[[Page 816]]

     LXXVI  Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 
                8600--8699)
    LXXVII  Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700--8799)
      LXXX  Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000--9099)
   LXXXIII  Special Inspector General for Afghanistan 
                Reconstruction (Parts 9300--9399)
    LXXXIV  Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400--
                9499)
    LXXXVI  National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600--
                9699)
     XCVII  Department of Homeland Security Human Resources 
                Management System (Department of Homeland 
                Security--Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 
                9700--9799)
     XCVII  Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and 
                Efficiency (Parts 9800--9899)
      XCIX  Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization 
                Commission (Parts 9900--9999)
         C  National Council on Disability (Partys 10000--10049)

                      Title 6--Domestic Security

         I  Department of Homeland Security, Office of the 
                Secretary (Parts 1--199)
         X  Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 
                1000--1099)

                         Title 7--Agriculture

            Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of Agriculture 
                (Parts 0--26)
            Subtitle B--Regulations of the Department of 
                Agriculture
         I  Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, 
                Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of 
                Agriculture (Parts 27--209)
        II  Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture 
                (Parts 210--299)
       III  Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department 
                of Agriculture (Parts 300--399)
        IV  Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of 
                Agriculture (Parts 400--499)
         V  Agricultural Research Service, Department of 
                Agriculture (Parts 500--599)
        VI  Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of 
                Agriculture (Parts 600--699)
       VII  Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 
                700--799)
      VIII  Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards 
                Administration (Federal Grain Inspection Service), 
                Department of Agriculture (Parts 800--899)
        IX  Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements 
                and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department 
                of Agriculture (Parts 900--999)
         X  Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements 
                and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture 
                (Parts 1000--1199)

[[Page 817]]

        XI  Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements 
                and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department 
                of Agriculture (Parts 1200--1299)
       XIV  Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of 
                Agriculture (Parts 1400--1499)
        XV  Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of 
                Agriculture (Parts 1500--1599)
       XVI  Rural Telephone Bank, Department of Agriculture (Parts 
                1600--1699)
      XVII  Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture 
                (Parts 1700--1799)
     XVIII  Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative 
                Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service 
                Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800--
                2099)
        XX  Local Television Loan Guarantee Board (Parts 2200--
                2299)
       XXV  Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of 
                Agriculture (Parts 2500--2599)
      XXVI  Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture 
                (Parts 2600--2699)
     XXVII  Office of Information Resources Management, Department 
                of Agriculture (Parts 2700--2799)
    XXVIII  Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 
                2800--2899)
      XXIX  Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of 
                Agriculture (Parts 2900--2999)
       XXX  Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of 
                Agriculture (Parts 3000--3099)
      XXXI  Office of Environmental Quality, Department of 
                Agriculture (Parts 3100--3199)
     XXXII  Office of Procurement and Property Management, 
                Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200--3299)
    XXXIII  Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture 
                (Parts 3300--3399)
     XXXIV  National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 
                3400--3499)
      XXXV  Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture 
                (Parts 3500--3599)
     XXXVI  National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department 
                of Agriculture (Parts 3600--3699)
    XXXVII  Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture 
                (Parts 3700--3799)
   XXXVIII  World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of 
                Agriculture (Parts 3800--3899)
       XLI  [Reserved]
      XLII  Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities 
                Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200--
                4299)

                    Title 8--Aliens and Nationality

         I  Department of Homeland Security (Immigration and 
                Naturalization) (Parts 1--499)

[[Page 818]]

         V  Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of 
                Justice (Parts 1000--1399)

                 Title 9--Animals and Animal Products

         I  Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department 
                of Agriculture (Parts 1--199)
        II  Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards 
                Administration (Packers and Stockyards Programs), 
                Department of Agriculture (Parts 200--299)
       III  Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of 
                Agriculture (Parts 300--599)

                           Title 10--Energy

         I  Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0--199)
        II  Department of Energy (Parts 200--699)
       III  Department of Energy (Parts 700--999)
         X  Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 
                1000--1099)
      XIII  Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300--
                1399)
      XVII  Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700--
                1799)
     XVIII  Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste 
                Commission (Parts 1800--1899)

                      Title 11--Federal Elections

         I  Federal Election Commission (Parts 1--9099)
        II  Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400--9499)

                      Title 12--Banks and Banking

         I  Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the 
                Treasury (Parts 1--199)
        II  Federal Reserve System (Parts 200--299)
       III  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300--399)
        IV  Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400--
                499)
         V  Office of Thrift Supervision, Department of the 
                Treasury (Parts 500--599)
        VI  Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600--699)
       VII  National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700--799)
      VIII  Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800--899)
        IX  Federal Housing Finance Board (Parts 900--999)
         X  Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 1000--
                1099)
        XI  Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council 
                (Parts 1100--1199)
       XII  Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200--1299)
      XIII  Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300--
                1399)
       XIV  Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400--
                1499)

[[Page 819]]

        XV  Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500--1599)
       XVI  Office of Financial Research (Parts 1600--1699)
      XVII  Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, 
                Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 
                1700--1799)
     XVIII  Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, 
                Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800--1899)

               Title 13--Business Credit and Assistance

         I  Small Business Administration (Parts 1--199)
       III  Economic Development Administration, Department of 
                Commerce (Parts 300--399)
        IV  Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400--499)
         V  Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 
                500--599)

                    Title 14--Aeronautics and Space

         I  Federal Aviation Administration, Department of 
                Transportation (Parts 1--199)
        II  Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation 
                (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200--399)
       III  Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation 
                Administration, Department of Transportation 
                (Parts 400--1199)
         V  National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 
                1200--1299)
        VI  Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300--
                1399)

                 Title 15--Commerce and Foreign Trade

            Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 
                0--29)
            Subtitle B--Regulations Relating to Commerce and 
                Foreign Trade
         I  Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 
                30--199)
        II  National Institute of Standards and Technology, 
                Department of Commerce (Parts 200--299)
       III  International Trade Administration, Department of 
                Commerce (Parts 300--399)
        IV  Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce 
                (Parts 400--499)
       VII  Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of 
                Commerce (Parts 700--799)
      VIII  Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce 
                (Parts 800--899)
        IX  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
                Department of Commerce (Parts 900--999)
        XI  Technology Administration, Department of Commerce 
                (Parts 1100--1199)
      XIII  East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300--1399)

[[Page 820]]

       XIV  Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400--
                1499)
            Subtitle C--Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade 
                Agreements
        XX  Office of the United States Trade Representative 
                (Parts 2000--2099)
            Subtitle D--Regulations Relating to Telecommunications 
                and Information
     XXIII  National Telecommunications and Information 
                Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 
                2300--2399)

                    Title 16--Commercial Practices

         I  Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0--999)
        II  Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000--1799)

             Title 17--Commodity and Securities Exchanges

         I  Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1--199)
        II  Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200--399)
        IV  Department of the Treasury (Parts 400--499)

          Title 18--Conservation of Power and Water Resources

         I  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of 
                Energy (Parts 1--399)
       III  Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400--499)
        VI  Water Resources Council (Parts 700--799)
      VIII  Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800--899)
      XIII  Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300--1399)

                       Title 19--Customs Duties

         I  U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of 
                Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury 
                (Parts 0--199)
        II  United States International Trade Commission (Parts 
                200--299)
       III  International Trade Administration, Department of 
                Commerce (Parts 300--399)
        IV  U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department 
                of Homeland Security (Parts 400--599)

                     Title 20--Employees' Benefits

         I  Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department 
                of Labor (Parts 1--199)
        II  Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200--399)
       III  Social Security Administration (Parts 400--499)
        IV  Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of 
                Labor (Parts 500--599)

[[Page 821]]

         V  Employment and Training Administration, Department of 
                Labor (Parts 600--699)
        VI  Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department 
                of Labor (Parts 700--799)
       VII  Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 
                800--899)
      VIII  Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 
                900--999)
        IX  Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' 
                Employment and Training Service, Department of 
                Labor (Parts 1000--1099)

                       Title 21--Food and Drugs

         I  Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and 
                Human Services (Parts 1--1299)
        II  Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice 
                (Parts 1300--1399)
       III  Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400--
                1499)

                      Title 22--Foreign Relations

         I  Department of State (Parts 1--199)
        II  Agency for International Development (Parts 200--299)
       III  Peace Corps (Parts 300--399)
        IV  International Joint Commission, United States and 
                Canada (Parts 400--499)
         V  Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 500--599)
       VII  Overseas Private Investment Corporation (Parts 700--
                799)
        IX  Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900--999)
         X  Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000--1099)
        XI  International Boundary and Water Commission, United 
                States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 
                1100--1199)
       XII  United States International Development Cooperation 
                Agency (Parts 1200--1299)
      XIII  Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300--1399)
       XIV  Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor 
                Relations Authority; General Counsel of the 
                Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign 
                Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400--1499)
        XV  African Development Foundation (Parts 1500--1599)
       XVI  Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 
                1600--1699)
      XVII  United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700--1799)

                          Title 23--Highways

         I  Federal Highway Administration, Department of 
                Transportation (Parts 1--999)
        II  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and 
                Federal Highway Administration, Department of 
                Transportation (Parts 1200--1299)

[[Page 822]]

       III  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 
                Department of Transportation (Parts 1300--1399)

                Title 24--Housing and Urban Development

            Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary, Department of 
                Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0--99)
            Subtitle B--Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban 
                Development
         I  Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, 
                Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 
                100--199)
        II  Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal 
                Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and 
                Urban Development (Parts 200--299)
       III  Government National Mortgage Association, Department 
                of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300--399)
        IV  Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing 
                Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing 
                and Urban Development (Parts 400--499)
         V  Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning 
                and Development, Department of Housing and Urban 
                Development (Parts 500--599)
        VI  Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning 
                and Development, Department of Housing and Urban 
                Development (Parts 600--699) [Reserved]
       VII  Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and 
                Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and 
                Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700--
                799)
      VIII  Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing--Federal 
                Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and 
                Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance 
                Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 
                202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and 
                Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With 
                Disabilities Program) (Parts 800--899)
        IX  Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian 
                Housing, Department of Housing and Urban 
                Development (Parts 900--1699)
         X  Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing--Federal 
                Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and 
                Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales 
                Registration Program) (Parts 1700--1799)
       XII  Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and 
                Urban Development (Parts 2000--2099)
        XV  Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, 
                Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 
                2700--2799) [Reserved]
        XX  Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing--Federal 
                Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and 
                Urban Development (Parts 3200--3899)
      XXIV  Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program 
                (Parts 4000--4099) [Reserved]
       XXV  Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100--
                4199)

[[Page 823]]

                           Title 25--Indians

         I  Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior 
                (Parts 1--299)
        II  Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the 
                Interior (Parts 300--399)
       III  National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the 
                Interior (Parts 500--599)
        IV  Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 
                700--799)
         V  Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, 
                and Indian Health Service, Department of Health 
                and Human Services (Part 900)
        VI  Office of the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs, 
                Department of the Interior (Parts 1000--1199)
       VII  Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, 
                Department of the Interior (Parts 1200--1299)

                      Title 26--Internal Revenue

         I  Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury 
                (Parts 1--End)

           Title 27--Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms

         I  Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department 
                of the Treasury (Parts 1--399)
        II  Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, 
                Department of Justice (Parts 400--699)

                   Title 28--Judicial Administration

         I  Department of Justice (Parts 0--299)
       III  Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice 
                (Parts 300--399)
         V  Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500--
                599)
        VI  Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice 
                (Parts 600--699)
       VII  Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700--799)
      VIII  Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the 
                District of Columbia (Parts 800--899)
        IX  National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council 
                (Parts 900--999)
        XI  Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 
                1100--1199)

                            Title 29--Labor

            Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 
                0--99)
            Subtitle B--Regulations Relating to Labor
         I  National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100--199)

[[Page 824]]

        II  Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of 
                Labor (Parts 200--299)
       III  National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300--399)
        IV  Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of 
                Labor (Parts 400--499)
         V  Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 
                500--899)
        IX  Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission 
                (Parts 900--999)
         X  National Mediation Board (Parts 1200--1299)
       XII  Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 
                1400--1499)
       XIV  Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600--
                1699)
      XVII  Occupational Safety and Health Administration, 
                Department of Labor (Parts 1900--1999)
        XX  Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission 
                (Parts 2200--2499)
       XXV  Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department 
                of Labor (Parts 2500--2599)
     XXVII  Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission 
                (Parts 2700--2799)
        XL  Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000--
                4999)

                      Title 30--Mineral Resources

         I  Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of 
                Labor (Parts 1--199)
        II  Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, 
                Department of the Interior (Parts 200--299)
        IV  Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 
                400--499)
         V  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the 
                Interior (Parts 500--599)
       VII  Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, 
                Department of the Interior (Parts 700--999)
       XII  Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the 
                Interior (Parts 1200--1299)

                 Title 31--Money and Finance: Treasury

            Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of the Treasury 
                (Parts 0--50)
            Subtitle B--Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
         I  Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 
                51--199)
        II  Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 
                200--399)
        IV  Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 
                400--499)
         V  Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the 
                Treasury (Parts 500--599)
        VI  Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the 
                Treasury (Parts 600--699)
       VII  Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of 
                the Treasury (Parts 700--799)

[[Page 825]]

      VIII  Office of International Investment, Department of the 
                Treasury (Parts 800--899)
        IX  Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the 
                Treasury--Department of Justice) (Parts 900--999)
         X  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of 
                the Treasury (Parts 1000--1099)

                      Title 32--National Defense

            Subtitle A--Department of Defense
         I  Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1--399)
         V  Department of the Army (Parts 400--699)
        VI  Department of the Navy (Parts 700--799)
       VII  Department of the Air Force (Parts 800--1099)
            Subtitle B--Other Regulations Relating to National 
                Defense
       XII  Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200--1299)
       XVI  Selective Service System (Parts 1600--1699)
      XVII  Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 
                1700--1799)
     XVIII  National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800--1899)
       XIX  Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900--1999)
        XX  Information Security Oversight Office, National 
                Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000--
                2099)
       XXI  National Security Council (Parts 2100--2199)
      XXIV  Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400--
                2499)
     XXVII  Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 
                2700--2799)
    XXVIII  Office of the Vice President of the United States 
                (Parts 2800--2899)

               Title 33--Navigation and Navigable Waters

         I  Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 
                1--199)
        II  Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 
                200--399)
        IV  Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, 
                Department of Transportation (Parts 400--499)

                          Title 34--Education

            Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary, Department of 
                Education (Parts 1--99)
            Subtitle B--Regulations of the Offices of the 
                Department of Education
         I  Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education 
                (Parts 100--199)
        II  Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, 
                Department of Education (Parts 200--299)
       III  Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative 
                Services, Department of Education (Parts 300--399)

[[Page 826]]

        IV  Office of Career, Technical and Adult Education, 
                Department of Education (Parts 400--499)
         V  Office of Bilingual Education and Minority Languages 
                Affairs, Department of Education (Parts 500--599) 
                [Reserved]
        VI  Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of 
                Education (Parts 600--699)
       VII  Office of Educational Research and Improvement, 
                Department of Education (Parts 700--799) 
                [Reserved]
            Subtitle C--Regulations Relating to Education
        XI  [Reserved]
       XII  National Council on Disability (Parts 1200--1299)

                          Title 35 [Reserved]

             Title 36--Parks, Forests, and Public Property

         I  National Park Service, Department of the Interior 
                (Parts 1--199)
        II  Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200--
                299)
       III  Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 
                300--399)
        IV  American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400--499)
         V  Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500--599)
        VI  [Reserved]
       VII  Library of Congress (Parts 700--799)
      VIII  Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800--
                899)
        IX  Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 
                900--999)
         X  Presidio Trust (Parts 1000--1099)
        XI  Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance 
                Board (Parts 1100--1199)
       XII  National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 
                1200--1299)
        XV  Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500--
                1599)
       XVI  Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National 
                Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600--1699)

             Title 37--Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights

         I  United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department 
                of Commerce (Parts 1--199)
        II  U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 
                200--299)
       III  Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 
                300--399)
        IV  Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy, Department 
                of Commerce (Parts 400--599)

           Title 38--Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief

         I  Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0--199)
        II  Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200--299)

[[Page 827]]

                       Title 39--Postal Service

         I  United States Postal Service (Parts 1--999)
       III  Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000--3099)

                  Title 40--Protection of Environment

         I  Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1--1099)
        IV  Environmental Protection Agency and Department of 
                Justice (Parts 1400--1499)
         V  Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500--1599)
        VI  Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 
                1600--1699)
       VII  Environmental Protection Agency and Department of 
                Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for 
                Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700--1799)
      VIII  Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800--
                1899)

          Title 41--Public Contracts and Property Management

            Subtitle A--Federal Procurement Regulations System 
                [Note]
            Subtitle B--Other Provisions Relating to Public 
                Contracts
        50  Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1--50-
                999)
        51  Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or 
                Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1--51-99)
        60  Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal 
                Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 
                60-1--60-999)
        61  Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' 
                Employment and Training Service, Department of 
                Labor (Parts 61-1--61-999)
   62--100  [Reserved]
            Subtitle C--Federal Property Management Regulations 
                System
       101  Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1--
                101-99)
       102  Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1--102-299)
  103--104  [Reserved]
       105  General Services Administration (Parts 105-1--105-999)
       109  Department of Energy Property Management Regulations 
                (Parts 109-1--109-99)
       114  Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1--114-99)
       115  Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1--115-99)
       128  Department of Justice (Parts 128-1--128-99)
  129--200  [Reserved]
            Subtitle D--Other Provisions Relating to Property 
                Management [Reserved]
            Subtitle E--Federal Information Resources Management 
                Regulations System [Reserved]
            Subtitle F--Federal Travel Regulation System
       300  General (Parts 300-1--300-99)
       301  Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1--
                301-99)

[[Page 828]]

       302  Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1--302-99)
       303  Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of 
                Certain Employees (Part 303-1--303-99)
       304  Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source 
                (Parts 304-1--304-99)

                        Title 42--Public Health

         I  Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human 
                Services (Parts 1--199)
        IV  Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Department 
                of Health and Human Services (Parts 400--599)
         V  Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of 
                Health and Human Services (Parts 1000--1999)

                   Title 43--Public Lands: Interior

            Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of the Interior 
                (Parts 1--199)
            Subtitle B--Regulations Relating to Public Lands
         I  Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior 
                (Parts 400--999)
        II  Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior 
                (Parts 1000--9999)
       III  Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation 
                Commission (Parts 10000--10099)

             Title 44--Emergency Management and Assistance

         I  Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of 
                Homeland Security (Parts 0--399)
        IV  Department of Commerce and Department of 
                Transportation (Parts 400--499)

                       Title 45--Public Welfare

            Subtitle A--Department of Health and Human Services 
                (Parts 1--199)
            Subtitle B--Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
        II  Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), 
                Administration for Children and Families, 
                Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 
                200--299)
       III  Office of Child Support Enforcement (Child Support 
                Enforcement Program), Administration for Children 
                and Families, Department of Health and Human 
                Services (Parts 300--399)
        IV  Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for 
                Children and Families, Department of Health and 
                Human Services (Parts 400--499)
         V  Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United 
                States, Department of Justice (Parts 500--599)

[[Page 829]]

        VI  National Science Foundation (Parts 600--699)
       VII  Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700--799)
      VIII  Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800--899)
         X  Office of Community Services, Administration for 
                Children and Families, Department of Health and 
                Human Services (Parts 1000--1099)
        XI  National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities 
                (Parts 1100--1199)
       XII  Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 
                1200--1299)
      XIII  Office of Human Development Services, Department of 
                Health and Human Services (Parts 1300--1399)
       XVI  Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600--1699)
      XVII  National Commission on Libraries and Information 
                Science (Parts 1700--1799)
     XVIII  Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800--
                1899)
       XXI  Commission on Fine Arts (Parts 2100--2199)
     XXIII  Arctic Research Commission (Part 2301)
      XXIV  James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 
                2400--2499)
       XXV  Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 
                2500--2599)

                          Title 46--Shipping

         I  Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 
                1--199)
        II  Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation 
                (Parts 200--399)
       III  Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of 
                Homeland Security (Parts 400--499)
        IV  Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500--599)

                      Title 47--Telecommunication

         I  Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0--199)
        II  Office of Science and Technology Policy and National 
                Security Council (Parts 200--299)
       III  National Telecommunications and Information 
                Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 
                300--399)
        IV  National Telecommunications and Information 
                Administration, Department of Commerce, and 
                National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 
                Department of Transportation (Parts 400--499)

           Title 48--Federal Acquisition Regulations System

         1  Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1--99)
         2  Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of 
                Defense (Parts 200--299)

[[Page 830]]

         3  Health and Human Services (Parts 300--399)
         4  Department of Agriculture (Parts 400--499)
         5  General Services Administration (Parts 500--599)
         6  Department of State (Parts 600--699)
         7  Agency for International Development (Parts 700--799)
         8  Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800--899)
         9  Department of Energy (Parts 900--999)
        10  Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000--1099)
        12  Department of Transportation (Parts 1200--1299)
        13  Department of Commerce (Parts 1300--1399)
        14  Department of the Interior (Parts 1400--1499)
        15  Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500--1599)
        16  Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees 
                Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 
                1600--1699)
        17  Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700--1799)
        18  National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 
                1800--1899)
        19  Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900--1999)
        20  Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000--2099)
        21  Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees 
                Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition 
                Regulation (Parts 2100--2199)
        23  Social Security Administration (Parts 2300--2399)
        24  Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 
                2400--2499)
        25  National Science Foundation (Parts 2500--2599)
        28  Department of Justice (Parts 2800--2899)
        29  Department of Labor (Parts 2900--2999)
        30  Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security 
                Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000--3099)
        34  Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 
                3400--3499)
        51  Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 
                5100--5199)
        52  Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 
                5200--5299)
        53  Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition 
                Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300--5399) 
                [Reserved]
        54  Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 
                5400--5499)
        57  African Development Foundation (Parts 5700--5799)
        61  Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services 
                Administration (Parts 6100--6199)
        63  Department of Transportation Board of Contract Appeals 
                (Parts 6300--6399)
        99  Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal 
                Procurement Policy, Office of Management and 
                Budget (Parts 9900--9999)

[[Page 831]]

                       Title 49--Transportation

            Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of Transportation 
                (Parts 1--99)
            Subtitle B--Other Regulations Relating to 
                Transportation
         I  Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety 
                Administration, Department of Transportation 
                (Parts 100--199)
        II  Federal Railroad Administration, Department of 
                Transportation (Parts 200--299)
       III  Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, 
                Department of Transportation (Parts 300--399)
        IV  Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 
                400--499)
         V  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 
                Department of Transportation (Parts 500--599)
        VI  Federal Transit Administration, Department of 
                Transportation (Parts 600--699)
       VII  National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) 
                (Parts 700--799)
      VIII  National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800--999)
         X  Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000--1399)
        XI  Research and Innovative Technology Administration, 
                Department of Transportation (Parts 1400--1499) 
                [Reserved]
       XII  Transportation Security Administration, Department of 
                Homeland Security (Parts 1500--1699)

                   Title 50--Wildlife and Fisheries

         I  United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of 
                the Interior (Parts 1--199)
        II  National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic 
                and Atmospheric Administration, Department of 
                Commerce (Parts 200--299)
       III  International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 
                300--399)
        IV  Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife 
                Service, Department of the Interior and National 
                Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and 
                Atmospheric Administration, Department of 
                Commerce); Endangered Species Committee 
                Regulations (Parts 400--499)
         V  Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500--599)
        VI  Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic 
                and Atmospheric Administration, Department of 
                Commerce (Parts 600--699)

[[Page 833]]




<R03>
           Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR


<R04>

                      (Revised as of July 1, 2016)

                                                  CFR Title, Subtitle or 
                     Agency                               Chapter

Administrative Committee of the Federal Register  1, I
Administrative Conference of the United States    1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation         36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of                  7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector     5, LXXXIII
     General for
African Development Foundation                    22, XV
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 57
Agency for International Development              2, VII; 22, II
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service                    7, I, IX, X, XI
Agricultural Research Service                     7, V
Agriculture Department                            2, IV; 5, LXXIII
  Advocacy and Outreach, Office of                7, XXV
  Agricultural Marketing Service                  7, I, IX, X, XI
  Agricultural Research Service                   7, V
  Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service      7, III; 9, I
  Chief Financial Officer, Office of              7, XXX
  Commodity Credit Corporation                    7, XIV
  Economic Research Service                       7, XXXVII
  Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of           2, IX; 7, XXIX
  Environmental Quality, Office of                7, XXXI
  Farm Service Agency                             7, VII, XVIII
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 4
  Federal Crop Insurance Corporation              7, IV
  Food and Nutrition Service                      7, II
  Food Safety and Inspection Service              9, III
  Foreign Agricultural Service                    7, XV
  Forest Service                                  36, II
  Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards        7, VIII; 9, II
       Administration
  Information Resources Management, Office of     7, XXVII
  Inspector General, Office of                    7, XXVI
  National Agricultural Library                   7, XLI
  National Agricultural Statistics Service        7, XXXVI
  National Institute of Food and Agriculture      7, XXXIV
  Natural Resources Conservation Service          7, VI
  Operations, Office of                           7, XXVIII
  Procurement and Property Management, Office of  7, XXXII
  Rural Business-Cooperative Service              7, XVIII, XLII
  Rural Development Administration                7, XLII
  Rural Housing Service                           7, XVIII, XXXV
  Rural Telephone Bank                            7, XVI
  Rural Utilities Service                         7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
  Secretary of Agriculture, Office of             7, Subtitle A
  Transportation, Office of                       7, XXXIII
  World Agricultural Outlook Board                7, XXXVIII
Air Force Department                              32, VII
  Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement       48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board            14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau          27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives,       27, II
     Bureau of
AMTRAK                                            49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission              36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee   25, VII

[[Page 834]]

Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service        7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission                   5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers         36, XI
     Compliance Board
Arctic Research Commission                        45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home                      5, XI
Army Department                                   32, V
  Engineers, Corps of                             33, II; 36, III
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 51
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages        34, V
     Affairs, Office of
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for         41, 51
     Purchase from People Who Are
Broadcasting Board of Governors                   22, V
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 19
Career, Technical and Adult Education, Office of  34, IV
Census Bureau                                     15, I
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services          42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency                       32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazardous Investigation       40, VI
     Board
Chief Financial Officer, Office of                7, XXX
Child Support Enforcement, Office of              45, III
Children and Families, Administration for         45, II, III, IV, X
Civil Rights, Commission on                       5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for                          34, I
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity    5, XCVIII
     and Efficiency
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency    5, LXX
     for the District of Columbia
Coast Guard                                       33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)                46, III
Commerce Department                               2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
  Census Bureau                                   15, I
  Economic Analysis, Bureau of                    15, VIII
  Economic Development Administration             13, III
  Emergency Management and Assistance             44, IV
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 13
  Foreign-Trade Zones Board                       15, IV
  Industry and Security, Bureau of                15, VII
  International Trade Administration              15, III; 19, III
  National Institute of Standards and Technology  15, II
  National Marine Fisheries Service               50, II, IV
  National Oceanic and Atmospheric                15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, 
       Administration                             VI
  National Telecommunications and Information     15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
       Administration
  National Weather Service                        15, IX
  Patent and Trademark Office, United States      37, I
  Productivity, Technology and Innovation,        37, IV
       Assistant Secretary for
  Secretary of Commerce, Office of                15, Subtitle A
  Technology Administration                       15, XI
  Technology Policy, Assistant Secretary for      37, IV
Commercial Space Transportation                   14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation                      7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission              5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of     24, V, VI
     Assistant Secretary for
Community Services, Office of                     45, X
Comptroller of the Currency                       12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining       29, IX
     Commission
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau              5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission                5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board                           37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service    2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board                   48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality                  40, V
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency    5, LXX; 28, VIII
     for the District of Columbia
Customs and Border Protection                     19, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency                     32, I

[[Page 835]]

Defense Department                                2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, 
                                                  Subtitle A; 40, VII
  Advanced Research Projects Agency               32, I
  Air Force Department                            32, VII
  Army Department                                 32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 
                                                  48, 51
  Defense Acquisition Regulations System          48, 2
  Defense Intelligence Agency                     32, I
  Defense Logistics Agency                        32, I, XII; 48, 54
  Engineers, Corps of                             33, II; 36, III
  National Imagery and Mapping Agency             32, I
  Navy Department                                 32, VI; 48, 52
  Secretary of Defense, Office of                 2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency                     32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency                       32, I
Defense Logistics Agency                          32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board           10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission                   18, III
District of Columbia, Court Services and          5, LXX; 28, VIII
     Offender Supervision Agency for the
Drug Enforcement Administration                   21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board                     15, XIII
Economic Analysis, Bureau of                      15, VIII
Economic Development Administration               13, III
Economic Research Service                         7, XXXVII
Education, Department of                          2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
  Bilingual Education and Minority Languages      34, V
       Affairs, Office of
  Career, Technical and Adult Education, Office   34, IV
       of
  Civil Rights, Office for                        34, I
  Educational Research and Improvement, Office    34, VII
       of
  Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of   34, II
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 34
  Postsecondary Education, Office of              34, VI
  Secretary of Education, Office of               34, Subtitle A
  Special Education and Rehabilitative Services,  34, III
       Office of
  Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office  34, IV
       of
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of   34, VII
Election Assistance Commission                    2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of     34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board       13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board              13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration         29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board             20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board                           5, V
Employment and Training Administration            20, V
Employment Standards Administration               20, VI
Endangered Species Committee                      50, IV
Energy, Department of                             2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, 
                                                  III, X
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 9
  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission            5, XXIV; 18, I
  Property Management Regulations                 41, 109
Energy, Office of                                 7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of                               33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of                 31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency                   2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, 
                                                  VII
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 15
  Property Management Regulations                 41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of                  7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission           5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary  24, I
     for
Executive Office of the President                 3, I
  Environmental Quality, Council on               40, V
  Management and Budget, Office of                2, Subtitle A; 5, III, 
                                                  LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99

[[Page 836]]

  National Drug Control Policy, Office of         2, XXXVI; 21, III
  National Security Council                       32, XXI; 47, 2
  Presidential Documents                          3
  Science and Technology Policy, Office of        32, XXIV; 47, II
  Trade Representative, Office of the United      15, XX
       States
Export-Import Bank of the United States           2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Family Assistance, Office of                      45, II
Farm Credit Administration                        5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation          5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency                               7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation                    48, 1
Federal Aviation Administration                   14, I
  Commercial Space Transportation                 14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards               31, IX
Federal Communications Commission                 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of   41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation                7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation             5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission                       5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency               44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal    48, 21
     Acquisition Regulation
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition     48, 16
     Regulation
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission              5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination        12, XI
     Council
Federal Financing Bank                            12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration                    23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation            1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office       12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency                    5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Housing Finance Board                     12, IX
Federal Labor Relations Authority                 5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center           31, VII
Federal Management Regulation                     41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission                       46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service        29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission  5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration       49, III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.                   28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office                 48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations           41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration                   49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of     1, I
Federal Register, Office of                       1, II
Federal Reserve System                            12, II
  Board of Governors                              5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board        5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel                    5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission                          5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration                    49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System                  41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network              31, X
Financial Research Office                         12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council             12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission on                          45, XXI
Fiscal Service                                    31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States          50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration                      21, I
Food and Nutrition Service                        7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service                9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service                      7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of                 31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the       45, V
     United States
Foreign Service Grievance Board                   22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel            22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board             22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board                         15, IV

[[Page 837]]

Forest Service                                    36, II
General Services Administration                   5, LVII; 41, 105
  Contract Appeals, Board of                      48, 61
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 5
  Federal Management Regulation                   41, 102
  Federal Property Management Regulations         41, 101
  Federal Travel Regulation System                41, Subtitle F
  General                                         41, 300
  Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel    41, 304
       Expenses
  Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death    41, 303
       of Certain Employees
  Relocation Allowances                           41, 302
  Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances          41, 301
Geological Survey                                 30, IV
Government Accountability Office                  4, I
Government Ethics, Office of                      5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association          24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards          7, VIII; 9, II
     Administration
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council          2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation            45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of          2, III; 5, XLV; 45, 
                                                  Subtitle A,
  Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services        42, IV
  Child Support Enforcement, Office of            45, III
  Children and Families, Administration for       45, II, III, IV, X
  Community Services, Office of                   45, X
  Family Assistance, Office of                    45, II
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 3
  Food and Drug Administration                    21, I
  Human Development Services, Office of           45, XIII
  Indian Health Service                           25, V
  Inspector General (Health Care), Office of      42, V
  Public Health Service                           42, I
  Refugee Resettlement, Office of                 45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of                  2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, 
                                                  I
  Coast Guard                                     33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
  Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)              46, III
  Customs and Border Protection                   19, I
  Federal Emergency Management Agency             44, I
  Human Resources Management and Labor Relations  5, XCVII
       Systems
  Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau      19, IV
  Transportation Security Administration          49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors   24, XXIV
     of
Housing and Urban Development, Department of      2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, 
                                                  Subtitle B
  Community Planning and Development, Office of   24, V, VI
       Assistant Secretary for
  Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant          24, I
       Secretary for
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 24
  Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office    12, XVII
       of
  Government National Mortgage Association        24, III
  Housing--Federal Housing Commissioner, Office   24, II, VIII, X, XX
       of Assistant Secretary for
  Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing     24, IV
       Assistance Restructuring, Office of
  Inspector General, Office of                    24, XII
  Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant  24, IX
       Secretary for
  Secretary, Office of                            24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing--Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of  24, II, VIII, X, XX
     Assistant Secretary for
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing       24, IV
     Assistance Restructuring, Office of
Human Development Services, Office of             45, XIII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau        19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for          8, V

[[Page 838]]

Independent Counsel, Office of                    28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of                   28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of                         25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant           25, VI
     Secretary
Indian Arts and Crafts Board                      25, II
Indian Health Service                             25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of                  15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of       7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National   32, XX
     Archives and Records Administration
Inspector General
  Agriculture Department                          7, XXVI
  Health and Human Services Department            42, V
  Housing and Urban Development Department        24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States                 22, XVII
Inter-American Foundation                         5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior Department                               2, XIV
  American Indians, Office of the Special         25, VII
       Trustee
  Endangered Species Committee                    50, IV
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 14
  Federal Property Management Regulations System  41, 114
  Fish and Wildlife Service, United States        50, I, IV
  Geological Survey                               30, IV
  Indian Affairs, Bureau of                       25, I, V
  Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant         25, VI
       Secretary
  Indian Arts and Crafts Board                    25, II
  Land Management, Bureau of                      43, II
  National Indian Gaming Commission               25, III
  National Park Service                           36, I
  Natural Resource Revenue, Office of             30, XII
  Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of              30, V
  Reclamation, Bureau of                          43, I
  Safety and Enforcement Bureau, Bureau of        30, II
  Secretary of the Interior, Office of            2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
  Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement,     30, VII
       Office of
Internal Revenue Service                          26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission,      22, XI
     United States and Mexico, United States 
     Section
International Development, United States Agency   22, II
     for
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency,     22, XII
     United States
International Joint Commission, United States     22, IV
     and Canada
International Organizations Employees Loyalty     5, V
     Board
International Trade Administration                15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States     19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission                    5, XL
Investment Security, Office of                    31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation      45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission         22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries       20, VIII
Justice Department                                2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, 
                                                  I, XI; 40, IV
  Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives,     27, II
       Bureau of
  Drug Enforcement Administration                 21, II
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 28
  Federal Claims Collection Standards             31, IX
  Federal Prison Industries, Inc.                 28, III
  Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the     45, V
       United States
  Immigration Review, Executive Office for        8, V
  Independent Counsel, Offices of                 28, VI
  Prisons, Bureau of                              28, V
  Property Management Regulations                 41, 128
Labor Department                                  2, XXIX; 5, XLII
  Employee Benefits Security Administration       29, XXV
  Employees' Compensation Appeals Board           20, IV

[[Page 839]]

  Employment and Training Administration          20, V
  Employment Standards Administration             20, VI
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 29
  Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office    41, 60
       of
  Federal Procurement Regulations System          41, 50
  Labor-Management Standards, Office of           29, II, IV
  Mine Safety and Health Administration           30, I
  Occupational Safety and Health Administration   29, XVII
  Public Contracts                                41, 50
  Secretary of Labor, Office of                   29, Subtitle A
  Veterans' Employment and Training Service,      41, 61; 20, IX
       Office of the Assistant Secretary for
  Wage and Hour Division                          29, V
  Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of       20, I, VII
Labor-Management Standards, Office of             29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of                        43, II
Legal Services Corporation                        45, XVI
Library of Congress                               36, VII
  Copyright Royalty Board                         37, III
  U.S. Copyright Office                           37, II
Local Television Loan Guarantee Board             7, XX
Management and Budget, Office of                  5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 
                                                  48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission                          50, V
Maritime Administration                           46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board                    5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for       32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement              5, XCIX
     Modernization Commission
Millennium Challenge Corporation                  22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration             30, I
Minority Business Development Agency              15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies                            1, IV
Monetary Offices                                  31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in     36, XVI
     National Environmental Policy Foundation
Museum and Library Services, Institute of         2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration     2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 18
National Agricultural Library                     7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service          7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for   2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration      2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
  Information Security Oversight Office           32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission              1, IV
National Commission for Employment Policy         1, IV
National Commission on Libraries and Information  45, XVII
     Science
National Council on Disability                    5, C; 34, XII
National Counterintelligence Center               32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration              5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact     28, IX
     Council
National Drug Control Policy, Office of           2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts                   2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities             2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the           45, XI
     Humanities
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency           32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration    23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency               32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission                 25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture        7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology    15, II
National Intelligence, Office of Director of      5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board                    5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service                 50, II, IV
National Mediation Board                          29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration   15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, 
                                                  VI

[[Page 840]]

National Park Service                             36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board                29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)  49, VII
National Science Foundation                       2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 25
National Security Council                         32, XXI
National Security Council and Office of Science   47, II
     and Technology Policy
National Telecommunications and Information       15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
     Administration
National Transportation Safety Board              49, VIII
Natural Resources Conservation Service            7, VI
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of               30, XII
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of      25, IV
Navy Department                                   32, VI
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation             24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste  10, XVIII
     Commission
Nuclear Regulatory Commission                     2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration     29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission  29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of                30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust             36, XV
Operations Office                                 7, XXVIII
Overseas Private Investment Corporation           5, XXXIII; 22, VII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States        37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel      41, 304
     Expenses
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of   41, 303
     Certain Employees
Peace Corps                                       2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation       36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation              29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of                   5, I, XXXV; 5, IV; 45, 
                                                  VIII
  Human Resources Management and Labor Relations  5, XCVII
       Systems, Department of Homeland Security
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 17
  Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal  48, 21
       Acquisition Regulation
  Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition   48, 16
       Regulation
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety           49, I
     Administration
Postal Regulatory Commission                      5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States                     5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of                34, VI
President's Commission on White House             1, IV
     Fellowships
Presidential Documents                            3
Presidio Trust                                    36, X
Prisons, Bureau of                                28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board       6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of    7, XXXII
Productivity, Technology and Innovation,          37, IV
     Assistant Secretary
Public Contracts, Department of Labor             41, 50
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant    24, IX
     Secretary for
Public Health Service                             42, I
Railroad Retirement Board                         20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of                            43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of                   45, IV
Relocation Allowances                             41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology                49, XI
     Administration
Rural Business-Cooperative Service                7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration                  7, XLII
Rural Housing Service                             7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Telephone Bank                              7, XVI
Rural Utilities Service                           7, XVII, XVIII, XLII

[[Page 841]]

Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of   30, II
Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation     33, IV
Science and Technology Policy, Office of          32, XXIV
Science and Technology Policy, Office of, and     47, II
     National Security Council
Secret Service                                    31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission                5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System                          32, XVI
Small Business Administration                     2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution                           36, V
Social Security Administration                    2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States        5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of                        5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services,    34, III
     Office of
State Department                                  2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement,       30, VII
     Office of
Surface Transportation Board                      49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission                18, VIII
Technology Administration                         15, XI
Technology Policy, Assistant Secretary for        37, IV
Tennessee Valley Authority                        5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Thrift Supervision Office, Department of the      12, V
     Treasury
Trade Representative, United States, Office of    15, XX
Transportation, Department of                     2, XII; 5, L
  Commercial Space Transportation                 14, III
  Contract Appeals, Board of                      48, 63
  Emergency Management and Assistance             44, IV
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 12
  Federal Aviation Administration                 14, I
  Federal Highway Administration                  23, I, II
  Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration     49, III
  Federal Railroad Administration                 49, II
  Federal Transit Administration                  49, VI
  Maritime Administration                         46, II
  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
  Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety         49, I
       Administration
  Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation   33, IV
  Secretary of Transportation, Office of          14, II; 49, Subtitle A
  Transportation Statistics Bureau                49, XI
Transportation, Office of                         7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration            49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau                  49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)           41, 301
Treasury Department                               2, X;5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, 
                                                  IV; 31, IX
  Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau        27, I
  Community Development Financial Institutions    12, XVIII
       Fund
  Comptroller of the Currency                     12, I
  Customs and Border Protection                   19, I
  Engraving and Printing, Bureau of               31, VI
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 10
  Federal Claims Collection Standards             31, IX
  Federal Law Enforcement Training Center         31, VII
  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network            31, X
  Fiscal Service                                  31, II
  Foreign Assets Control, Office of               31, V
  Internal Revenue Service                        26, I
  Investment Security, Office of                  31, VIII
  Monetary Offices                                31, I
  Secret Service                                  31, IV
  Secretary of the Treasury, Office of            31, Subtitle A
  Thrift Supervision, Office of                   12, V
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation           45, XVIII
United States and Canada, International Joint     22, IV
     Commission
United States and Mexico, International Boundary  22, XI
   and Water Commission, United States Section
[[Page 842]]

U.S. Copyright Office                             37, II
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation      43, III
     Commission
Veterans Affairs Department                       2, VIII; 38, I
  Federal Acquisition Regulation                  48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service,        41, 61; 20, IX
     Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Vice President of the United States, Office of    32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division                            29, V
Water Resources Council                           18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of         20, I, VII
World Agricultural Outlook Board                  7, XXXVIII

[[Page 843]]


<R03>
List of CFR Sections Affected

<R04>

All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that 
were made by documents published in the Federal Register since January 
1, 2011 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the 
nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to Federal Register 
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and 
subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the 
annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The 
LSA is available at www.fdsys.gov. For changes to this volume of the CFR 
prior to 2001, see the ``List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-
1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000'' published in 11 separate volumes. The 
``List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000'' is available at 
www.fdsys.gov.

                                  2011

40 CFR
                                                                   76 FR
                                                                    Page
Chapter I
704.3 Amended......................................................50858
    Correctly amended..............................................54932
707.20 (c)(2)(ii) revised..........................................49674
710 Heading revised................................................50859
    Heading correctly revised......................................54933
710.1--710.4 (Subpart A) Heading removed...........................50859
    Heading correctly removed......................................54933
710.1 (b) revised..................................................50859
    (b) correctly revised..........................................54933
710.3 Amended......................................................50859
    Correctly amended..............................................54933
710.23--710.39 (Subpart B) Removed.................................50859
    Correctly removed..............................................54933
710.43--710.59 (Subpart C) Removed.................................50859
    Correctly removed..............................................54933
710.53 Amended.....................................................27273
711 Added..........................................................50859
    Correctly added................................................54933
721.185 (b)(1) revised; eff. 7-26-11...............................30836
721.5185 Heading, (a)(1), (2)(i), (iii) and (b)(1) revised; 
        (a)(2)(ii) added; (a)(2)(iv), (v) and (vi) removed.........27914
721.6078 Removed...................................................76302
721.10183 Added....................................................26192
721.10201 Added....................................................48001
721.10230 Added....................................................61580
    Removed........................................................75795
721.10231 Added....................................................61580
    Removed........................................................75795
721.10232 Added....................................................61581
721.10233 Added....................................................61581
721.10234 Added....................................................61581
721.10235 Added....................................................61581
721.10236 Added....................................................61581
721.10237 Added....................................................61582
721.10238 Added....................................................61582
721.10239 Added....................................................61582
721.10240 Added....................................................61582
721.10241 Added....................................................61583
721.10242 Added....................................................61583
721.10243 Added....................................................61583
721.10244 Added....................................................61583
721.10245 Added....................................................61583
721.10246 Added....................................................61584
721.10247 Added....................................................61584
721.10248 Added....................................................61584
721.10249 Added....................................................61584
721.10250 Added....................................................61584
721.10251 Added....................................................61584
721.10252 Added....................................................61584
721.10253 Added....................................................61585
721.10254 Added....................................................61585
721.10255 Added....................................................61585
721.10256 Added....................................................61585
721.10257 Added....................................................61585
721.10258 Added....................................................61585
721.10259 Added....................................................61586
721.10260 Added....................................................61586
721.10261 Added....................................................61586
721.10262 Added....................................................61586
721.10263 Added....................................................61586

[[Page 844]]

721.10264 Added....................................................61586

                                  2012

40 CFR
                                                                   77 FR
                                                                    Page
Chapter I
700.17 (Subpart A) Added...........................................46292
711.20 Amended.....................................................36172
712.30 (c)(1) amended..............................................46292
716.21 (a)(9) added................................................71567
    Regulation at 77 FR 71567 withdrawn............................76419
716.105 (c) amended................................................46292
716.120 (c) table amended..........................................71567
    Regulation at 77 FR 71567 withdrawn............................76419
720.95 Amended.....................................................46292
721.5725 Added.....................................................41696
721.9719 (a)(1), (2)(i), (ii) and (b)(1) revised; (a)(2)(iii) and 
        (b)(3) removed..............................................6479
    (a)(2)(ii) corrected...........................................13507
    (a)(2)(ii) revised.............................................24409
721.10068 (a) amended; (b)(2)(viii) added..........................31734
721.10230 Added....................................................42996
721.10231 Added....................................................42996
721.10282 Added....................................................20305
721.10283 Added....................................................20305
721.10284 Added....................................................20306
721.10285 Added....................................................20306
721.10286 Added....................................................20306
721.10287 Added....................................................20306
721.10288 Added....................................................20306
721.10289 Added....................................................20307
721.10290 Added....................................................20307
721.10291 Added....................................................20307
    Removed........................................................32022
721.10292 Added....................................................20307
721.10293 Added....................................................20307
721.10294 Added....................................................20307
721.10295 Added....................................................20308
721.10296 Added....................................................20308
721.10297 Added....................................................20308
721.10298 Added....................................................20308
721.10299 Added....................................................25264
721.10300 Added....................................................25264
721.10301 Added....................................................25264
721.10302 Added....................................................25264
721.10303 Added....................................................25264
721.10303 Added....................................................25265
721.10304 Added....................................................25265
721.10305 Added....................................................25265
721.10306 Added....................................................25265
721.10307 Added....................................................25265
721.10308 Added....................................................25265
    Removed........................................................43521
721.10309 Added....................................................25265
    Removed........................................................43521
721.10310 Added....................................................25266
    Removed........................................................43521
721.10311 Added....................................................25266
    Removed........................................................43521
721.10312 Added....................................................25266
    Removed........................................................43521
721.10313 Added....................................................25266
721.10314 Added....................................................25266
721.10315 Added....................................................25266
721.10316 Added....................................................25267
721.10317 Added....................................................25267
721.10318 Added....................................................25267
721.10319 Added....................................................25267
721.10320 Added....................................................25267
721.10321 Added....................................................25267
721.10322 Added....................................................25267
721.10323 Added....................................................25268
721.10324 Added....................................................25268
721.10325 Added....................................................25268
721.10326 Added....................................................25268
721.10327 Added....................................................25268
721.10328 Added....................................................25268
721.10329 Added....................................................25269
721.10330 Added....................................................25269
721.10331 Added....................................................25269
721.10332 Added....................................................25269
721.10333 Added....................................................25269
721.10334 Added....................................................25269
721.10335 Added....................................................25270
721.10336 Added....................................................25270
721.10337 Added....................................................25270
721.10338 Added....................................................25270
721.10339 Added....................................................25270
721.10340 Added....................................................25270
721.10341 Added....................................................25270
721.10342 Added....................................................25271
721.10343 Added....................................................25271
721.10344 Added....................................................25271
721.10345 Added....................................................25271
721.10346 Added....................................................25271
721.10347 Added....................................................25271
721.10348 Added....................................................25272
721.10349 Added....................................................25272
721.10350 Added....................................................25272
721.10351 Added....................................................25272
721.10352 Added....................................................25272
721.10353 Added....................................................25272
721.10354 Added....................................................25272
721.10355 Added....................................................25273
721.10356 Added....................................................25273
721.10357 Added....................................................25273
721.10358 Added....................................................25273
721.10359 Added....................................................25273

[[Page 845]]

721.10360 Added....................................................25273
721.10361 Added....................................................25274
721.10362 Added....................................................25274
721.10363 Added....................................................25274
721.10364 Added....................................................25274
721.10365 Added....................................................25274
721.10366 Added....................................................25274
721.10367 Added....................................................25275
721.10368 Added....................................................25275
721.10369 Added....................................................25275
721.10370 Added....................................................25275
721.10371 Added....................................................25275
721.10372 Added....................................................25275
721.10373 Added....................................................25276
721.10374 Added....................................................25276
721.10375 Added....................................................25276
721.10376 Added....................................................25276
721.10377 Added....................................................25276
721.10378 Added....................................................25276
721.10379 Added....................................................25277
721.10380 Added....................................................25277
721.10381 Added....................................................25277
721.10382 Added....................................................25277
721.10383 Added....................................................25277
721.10384 Added....................................................25277
721.10385 Added....................................................25278
721.10386 Added....................................................25278
721.10387 Added....................................................25278
721.10388 Added....................................................25278
721.10389 Added....................................................25278
721.10390 Added....................................................25278
721.10391 Added....................................................25279
721.10392 Added....................................................25279
721.10393 Added....................................................25279
721.10394 Added....................................................25279
721.10395 Added....................................................25279
721.10396 Added....................................................25280
721.10397 Added....................................................25280
721.10398 Added....................................................25280
721.10399 Added....................................................25280
721.10400 Added....................................................25280
721.10401 Added....................................................25280
721.10402 Added....................................................25281
    Removed........................................................37609
721.10403 Added....................................................25281
    Removed........................................................37609
721.10404 Added....................................................25281
    Removed........................................................37609
721.10405 Added....................................................25281
    Removed........................................................37609
721.10406 Added....................................................25281
    Removed........................................................37609
721.10407 Added....................................................25281
    Removed........................................................37609
721.10408 Added....................................................25282
721.10409 Added....................................................25282
721.10410 Added....................................................24624
721.10411 Added....................................................24624
721.10412 Added....................................................24624
721.10413 Added....................................................24625
721.10414 Added....................................................24625
721.10415 Added....................................................24625
721.10416 Added....................................................24626
721.10417 Added....................................................24626
721.10418 Added....................................................24626
721.10419 Added....................................................24626
721.10420 Added....................................................24626
721.10421 Added....................................................24627
721.10422 Added....................................................24627
721.10423 Added....................................................24627
    Removed........................................................37610
721.10424 Added....................................................24627
721.10425 Added....................................................24627
721.10426 Added....................................................61140
721.10427 Added....................................................58690
721.10428 Added....................................................58690
721.10429 Added....................................................58690
721.10430 Added....................................................58690
721.10431 Added....................................................58690
721.10432 Added....................................................58691
721.10433 Added....................................................58691
721.10434 Added....................................................58691
721.10435 Added....................................................58691
721.10436 Added....................................................58691
721.10437 Added....................................................58691
721.10438 Added....................................................58692
721.10439 Added....................................................58692
721.10440 Added....................................................58692
721.10441 Added....................................................58692
721.10442 Added....................................................58692
721.10443 Added....................................................58692
721.10444 Added....................................................58693
721.10445 Added....................................................58693
721.10446 Added....................................................58693
721.10447 Added....................................................58693
721.10448 Added....................................................58693
721.10449 Added....................................................58694
721.10450 Added....................................................58694
721.10451 Added....................................................58694
721.10452 Added....................................................58694
721.10453 Added....................................................58694
721.10454 Added....................................................58694
721.10455 Added....................................................58695
721.10456 Added....................................................58695
721.10457 Added....................................................58695
721.10458 Added....................................................58695
721.10459 Added....................................................58695
721.10460 Added....................................................58696
721.10461 Added....................................................58696
721.10462 Added....................................................58696
721.10463 Added....................................................58696
721.10464 Added....................................................58696

[[Page 846]]

721.10465 Added....................................................58696
721.10466 Added....................................................58697
721.10467 Added....................................................58697
721.10468 Added....................................................58697
721.10469 Added....................................................58697
721.10470 Added....................................................58697
721.10471 Added....................................................58698
721.10472 Added....................................................58698
721.10473 Added....................................................58698
721.10474 Added....................................................58698
721.10475 Added....................................................58698
721.10476 Added....................................................58698
721.10477 Added....................................................58699
721.10478 Added....................................................58699
721.10479 Added....................................................58699
721.10480 Added....................................................58699
721.10481 Added....................................................58699
721.10482 Added....................................................58699
721.10483 Added....................................................58700
721.10484 Added....................................................58700
721.10485 Added....................................................58700
721.10486 Added....................................................58700
721.10487 Added....................................................58700
721.10488 Added....................................................58700
721.10489 Added....................................................58701
721.10490 Added....................................................58701
721.10491 Added....................................................58701
721.10492 Added....................................................58701
721.10493 Added....................................................58702
721.10494 Added....................................................58702
721.10495 Added....................................................58702
721.10496 Added....................................................58702
721.10497 Added....................................................58702
721.10498 Added....................................................58703
721.10499 Added....................................................58703
721.10500 Added....................................................58703
721.10501 Added....................................................58703
721.10502 Added....................................................58703
721.10503 Added....................................................58704
721.10504 Added....................................................58704
721.10505 Added....................................................58704
721.10506 Added....................................................58704
721.10507 Added....................................................58704
721.10508 Added....................................................58704
721.10509 Added....................................................58705
    Removed........................................................76898
721.10510 Added....................................................58705
721.10511 Added....................................................58705
721.10512 Added....................................................58705
721.10513 Added....................................................58705
721.10514 Added....................................................58705
721.10515 Added....................................................58706
    Removed........................................................76898
721.10516 Added....................................................48872
721.10517 Added....................................................48873
721.10518 Added....................................................48873
721.10519 Added....................................................48873
721.10520 Added....................................................48874
721.10521 Added....................................................48874
721.10522 Added....................................................48874
721.10523 Added....................................................48875
721.10524 Added....................................................48875
721.10525 Added....................................................48875
721.10526 Added....................................................48875
721.10527 Added....................................................48876
721.10528 Added....................................................48876
721.10529 Added....................................................48877
721.10530 Added....................................................48877
721.10531 Added....................................................48877
721.10532 Added....................................................48877
721.10533 Added....................................................48877
721.10534 Added....................................................48877
721.10535 Added....................................................48878
721.10537 Added....................................................61140
721.10538 Added....................................................61140
721.10539 Added....................................................61140
721.10540 Added....................................................61140
721.10541 Added....................................................61140
721.10542 Added....................................................61141
721.10543 Added....................................................61142
721.10544 Added....................................................61141
721.10545 Added....................................................61141
721.10546 Added....................................................61141
721.10547 Added....................................................61141
721.10548 Added....................................................61142
721.10549 Added....................................................61142
721.10550 Added....................................................61142
721.10551 Added....................................................61142
721.10552 Added....................................................61142
721.10553 Added....................................................61142
721.10554 Added....................................................61143
721.10555 Added....................................................61143
721.10556 Added....................................................61143
721.10557 Added....................................................61144
721.10558 Added....................................................61144
721.10559 Added....................................................61144
721.10560 Added....................................................61144
721.10561 Added....................................................61144
721.10562 Added....................................................61144
721.10563 Added....................................................61145
721.10564 Added....................................................61145
721.10565 Added....................................................61145
721.10566 Added....................................................61145
721.10567 Added....................................................61145
721.10568 Added....................................................61145
721.10569 Added....................................................61146
721.10570 Added....................................................61146
721.10571 Added....................................................61146
721.10572 Added....................................................61146
721.10573 Added....................................................61146
721.10574 Added....................................................61147
721.10575 Added....................................................61147

[[Page 847]]

721.10576 Added....................................................61147
721.10577 Added....................................................61148
721.10578 Added....................................................61148
721.10579 Added....................................................61148
721.10580 Added....................................................61148
721.10581 Added....................................................61148
721.10582 Added....................................................61149
721.10583 Added....................................................61149
721.10584 Added....................................................61149
721.10585 Added....................................................61149
721.10586 Added....................................................61149
721.10587 Added....................................................61150
721.10588 Added....................................................61150
721.10589 Added....................................................61150
721.10590 Added....................................................61150
721.10591 Added....................................................61150
721.10592 Added....................................................61150
721.10593 Added....................................................61151
721.10594 Added....................................................61151
721.10595 Added....................................................61151
721.10596 Added....................................................61151
721.10597 Added....................................................61151
721.10598 Added....................................................61151
721.10599 Added....................................................61152
721.10600 Added....................................................61152
721.10601 Added....................................................61153
721.10602 Added....................................................61153
721.10603 Added....................................................61153
721.10604 Added....................................................61153
721.10605 Added....................................................61154
721.10606 Added....................................................61154
721.10607 Added....................................................61154
721.10608 Added....................................................61154
721.10609 Added....................................................61155
721.10610 Added....................................................61155
721.10611 Added....................................................66159
721.10612 Added....................................................66159
    Removed........................................................75567
721.10613 Added....................................................66160
    Removed........................................................75567
721.10614 Added....................................................66160
    Removed........................................................75567
721.10615 Added....................................................66161
    Removed........................................................75567
721.10616 Added....................................................66161
    Removed........................................................75567
721.10617 Added....................................................66162
    Removed........................................................75567
721.10618 Added....................................................66162
721.10619 Added....................................................66162
721.10620 Added....................................................66163
721.10621 Added....................................................66163
721.10622 Added....................................................66163
721.10623 Added....................................................66163
    Removed........................................................75567
721.10624 Added....................................................66163
721.10625 Added....................................................66163
721.10626 Added....................................................66164
721.10627 Added....................................................66164
721.10628 Added....................................................66164
721.10629 Added....................................................75397
721.10630 Added....................................................75398
721.10631 Added....................................................75398
721.10632 Added....................................................75398
721.10633 Added....................................................75398
721.10634 Added....................................................75398
721.10635 Added....................................................75398
721.10636 Added....................................................75399
723.50 (h)(2)(i)(A) amended........................................46293

                                  2013

40 CFR
                                                                   78 FR
                                                                    Page
Chapter I
702.20 (c)(2)(ii) amended..........................................37978
712.3 (q) and (r) added............................................72825
712.28 (c) and (d) revised; (e) added..............................72825
712.30 (a)(3)(i), (ii) and (c)(2) revised..........................72826
716.3 Amended......................................................72826
716.30 (c) revised; (d) added......................................72826
716.35 (c) revised; (d) added......................................72826
716.55 (b)(3) revised..............................................72826
716.60 (a), (b)(2), (c) and (d) revised; (e) added.................72826
716.105 (d) revised; (e) added.....................................72827
720.40 (a)(2)(i) and (ii) removed; (a)(2)(iii) and (iv) 
        redesignated as (a)(2)(i) and (ii); new (a)(2)(i) and (c) 
        revised....................................................72827
720.75 (b)(2) and (e)(1) revised...................................72827
720.102 (d)(1) removed; (d) introductory text redesignated (d)(1); 
        (d)(2) revised.............................................72827
721.30 (b) introductory text revised...............................72827
721.185 (b)(1) revised.............................................72827
721.3020 Heading, (a)(1), (2)(i) and (b)(1) revised; (a)(2)(ii), 
        (iii), (iv) and (b)(3) removed.............................46286
721.9582 (a)(1) introductory text and (2) through (5) revised; 
        (a)(1) Table 4 added.......................................62450
721.10182 (a)(1) and (2)(i) revised................................65572
721.10265 Added; eff. 8-26-13......................................38217
721.10266 Added; eff. 8-26-13......................................38218
721.10267 Added; eff. 8-26-13......................................38218
721.10268 Added; eff. 8-26-13......................................38219
721.10269 Added; eff. 8-26-13......................................38219
721.10270 Added; eff. 8-26-13......................................38219

[[Page 848]]

721.10271 Added; eff. 8-26-13......................................38220
721.10272 Added; eff. 8-26-13......................................38220
721.10273 Added; eff. 8-26-13......................................38221
721.10274 Added; eff. 8-26-13......................................38221
721.10275 Added; eff. 8-26-13......................................38221
721.10276 Added; eff. 8-26-13......................................38222
721.10277 Added; eff. 8-26-13......................................38222
721.10278 Added; eff. 8-26-13......................................38222
721.10279 Added; eff. 8-26-13......................................38223
721.10280 Added; eff. 8-26-13......................................38223
721.10308 Added....................................................25392
721.10515 Added....................................................55635
721.10536 Added....................................................62451
721.10633 (a)(2)(i) revised........................................18527
721.10661 Added; eff. 7-8-13.......................................27056
721.10662 Added; eff. 7-8-13.......................................27056
721.10663 Added; eff. 7-8-13.......................................27056
721.10664 Added; eff. 7-8-13.......................................27056
721.10665 Added; eff. 7-8-13.......................................27056
721.10666 Added; eff. 7-8-13.......................................27057
721.10667 Added; eff. 7-8-13.......................................27057
721.10668 Added; eff. 7-8-13.......................................27057
721.10669 Added; eff. 7-8-13.......................................27057
721.10670 Added; eff. 7-8-13.......................................27057
721.10671 Added....................................................48063
721.10672 Added....................................................48063
721.10673 Added....................................................48063
    Removed........................................................66280
721.10674 Added....................................................48064
    Removed........................................................66280
721.10675 Added....................................................48064
    Removed........................................................66280
721.10676 Added....................................................48065
721.10677 Added....................................................48065
721.10678 Added....................................................48065
721.10679 Added....................................................48066
721.10680 Added....................................................48066
721.10681 Added....................................................48066
721.10682 Added....................................................48066
721.10683 Added....................................................48066
721.10684 Added....................................................48066
721.10685 Added....................................................48067
721.10686 Added....................................................48067
721.10687 Added....................................................48067
721.10688 Added....................................................48067
721.10689 Added....................................................48067
721.10690 Added....................................................48067
721.10691 Added....................................................48068
721.10692 Added....................................................48068
721.10693 Added....................................................48068
723.50 (e)(1) revised..............................................72828

                                  2014

40 CFR
                                                                   79 FR
                                                                    Page
Chapter I
711.6 (b)(1) introductory text, Table 1 heading, (2)(ii)(A), 
        (iii)(A), (iv) introductory text and Table 2 amended; eff. 
        8-18-14....................................................35098
    (b)(2)(iv) Table 2 amended.....................................66658
721.303 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14...................34636
721.338 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14...................34636
721.530 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14...................34636
721.558 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14...................34636
721.1568 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34636
721.1625 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34636
721.1660 Revised...................................................77909
721.2091 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34636
721.2527 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34637
721.2577 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34637
721.2805 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34637
721.3062 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34637
721.3063 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34637
721.3380 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34637
721.3420 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34637
721.3830 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34637
721.4620 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34637
721.5262 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34637
721.5325 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34638
721.5350 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34638
721.8700 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34638
721.9285 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34638
721.9480 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34638
721.9492 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34638

[[Page 849]]

721.9497 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34638
721.9635 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34638
721.9720 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34638
721.9730 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34638
721.9800 Heading and (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-18-14..................34638
721.10226 Added....................................................77911
721.10227 Added....................................................77911
721.10229 Added....................................................74646
721.10423 Added.....................................................6475
721.10637 Added....................................................51905
721.10638 Added....................................................51906
721.10639 Added....................................................51906
721.10640 Added....................................................51906
721.10641 Added....................................................51906
721.10642 Added....................................................51906
721.10643 Added....................................................51907
    (a)(2)(i) correctly revised....................................60760
721.10644 Added....................................................51907
721.10645 Added....................................................51907
721.10646 Added....................................................51908
721.10647 Added....................................................51908
721.10648 Added....................................................51908
721.10649 Added....................................................51909
721.10651 Added....................................................51909
721.10652 Added....................................................51909
721.10653 Added....................................................51910
    (a)(1) correctly revised.......................................60760
721.10654 Added....................................................51910
721.10655 Added....................................................51910
721.10656 Added....................................................51911
721.10657 Added....................................................51911
721.10658 Added....................................................51912
721.10659 Added....................................................51912
721.10660 Added....................................................51912
721.10695 Added.....................................................8285
721.10696 Added.....................................................8285
721.10697 Added.....................................................8286
721.10698 Added.....................................................8286
721.10699 Added.....................................................8287
721.10700 Added.....................................................8287
721.10701 Added.....................................................8287
721.10702 Added.....................................................8288
721.10703 Added.....................................................8288
721.10704 Added.....................................................8289
721.10705 Added.....................................................8289
721.10706 Added.....................................................8289
721.10707 Added.....................................................8289
721.10708 Added.....................................................8290
721.10709 Added.....................................................8290
721.10710 Added.....................................................8290
721.10711 Added.....................................................8290
721.10712 Added.....................................................8290
721.10713 Added.....................................................8290
721.10714 Added.....................................................8291
721.10715 Added.....................................................8291
721.10716 Added.....................................................8291
721.10717 Added.....................................................8291
    Removed........................................................20801
721.10718 Added.....................................................8291
721.10719 Added.....................................................8292
    Removed........................................................20801
721.10720 Added.....................................................8292
    Removed........................................................20801
721.10721 Added.....................................................8292
721.10722 Added.....................................................8292
721.10723 Added.....................................................8293
    Removed........................................................20801
721.10724 Added.....................................................8293
721.10725 Added....................................................39281
721.10726 Added....................................................39281
721.10727 Added....................................................39281
721.10728 Added....................................................39281
721.10729 Added....................................................39282
721.10730 Added....................................................39282
721.10731 Added....................................................39283
721.10732 Added....................................................39283
721.10733 Added....................................................39283
721.10734 Added....................................................39283
721.10735 Added....................................................39284
    Removed........................................................52564
721.10736 Added....................................................39284
721.10737 Added....................................................39284
721.10738 Added....................................................39284
721.10739 Added....................................................39284
721.10740 Added....................................................39284
721.10741 Added....................................................39285
    Removed........................................................52564
721.10742 Added....................................................39285
    Removed........................................................52564
721.10743 Added....................................................39285
    Removed........................................................52564
721.10744 Added....................................................39286
    Removed........................................................52564
721.10745 Added....................................................39286
721.10746 Added....................................................39286
721.10747 Added....................................................39286
721.10748 Added....................................................39287
721.10749 Added....................................................39287
721.10750 Added....................................................39287
721.10751 Added....................................................39287
721.10752 Added....................................................39287
721.10753 Added....................................................39288
721.10754 Added....................................................39288
721.10755 Added....................................................38472
721.10756 Added....................................................38473
721.10757 Added....................................................38473
721.10758 Added....................................................38473

[[Page 850]]

721.10759 Added....................................................38474
721.10760 Added....................................................38474
721.10761 Added....................................................38474
721.10762 Added....................................................38474
    Removed........................................................52564
721.10763 Added....................................................38475
721.10764 Added....................................................39288
721.10766 Added....................................................63833
721.10767 Added....................................................63833
721.10768 Added....................................................63834
721.10769 Added....................................................63834
721.10770 Added....................................................63835
721.10771 Added....................................................63836
721.10772 Added....................................................63836
721.10773 Added....................................................63836
721.10774 Added....................................................63837
721.10775 Added....................................................63837
721.10776 Added....................................................63837
    Removed........................................................76901
721.10777 Added....................................................63837
721.10778 Added....................................................63837
721.10779 Added....................................................63838
721.10780 Added....................................................63838
    Removed........................................................76901
721.10781 Added....................................................63838
    Removed........................................................76901
721.10782 Added....................................................63838
    Removed........................................................76901
721.10783 Added....................................................63838
    Removed........................................................76901
721.10784 Added....................................................63838
721.10785 Added....................................................63839
721.10786 Added....................................................63839
721.10787 Added....................................................63839
721.10788 Added....................................................63839

                                  2015

40 CFR
                                                                   80 FR
                                                                    Page
Chapter I
711.6 (b)(2)(iv) Table 2 amended.............................4484, 16577
720.3 (kk) removed; (ll) redesignated as new (kk); (c) and new 
        (kk) revised...............................................42745
720.25 (b)(1), (2) introductory text, (i), (ii) and (4) through 
        (7) revised................................................42745
720.40 (a)(2)(i), (ii) introductory text, (e)(1) and (3) revised 
                                                                   42746
720.75 (b)(2) and (e)(2) revised; (b)(3) and (4) removed...........42746
721.11 (a), (b) introductory text, (1), (2), (3), (d), (e) and (f) 
        revised....................................................42746
721.522 (a)(1) and (2)(i) revised; eff. 8-31-15....................37164
721.532 Heading, (a)(1), (2)(i) and (b)(1) revised; (a)(3) added; 
        eff. 8-31-15...............................................37164
721.633 (a)(1), (2)(i) and (b)(1) revised; (a)(2)(iii) removed; 
        eff. 8-31-15...............................................37164
721.2076 (a)(1) and (2)(i) revised; eff. 8-31-15...................37165
721.4680 Removed...................................................15517
721.5185 (a)(1), (2)(iii) and (b)(1) revised; (a)(2)(iv) added; 
        eff. 8-31-15...............................................37165
721.5575 (a)(1) and (2)(iii) revised...............................70175
721.5645 (a)(1) and (2)(i) revised; eff. 8-31-15...................37165
721.5713 (a)(1) and (2)(i) revised; eff. 8-31-15...................37165
721.8145 (a)(1) and (2)(i) revised; eff. 8-31-15...................37165
721.9501 (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-31-15..............................37165
721.9502 (a)(1) and (2)(i) revised; eff. 8-31-15...................37165
721.9595 Heading, (a)(1) and (2)(i) revised; eff. 8-31-15..........37166
721.9675 (a)(1), (2)(i) and (b)(1) revised; (a)(2)(ii) removed.....70175
721.9892 Heading, (a)(1) and (2)(i) revised; eff. 8-31-15..........37166
721.10008 (a)(2)(ii) and (b)(1) revised; (a)(2)(iii) and (b)(3) 
        removed; eff. 8-31-15......................................37166
721.10182 (a)(1) and (2)(i) revised; eff. 8-31-15..................37166
721.10281 Added....................................................57301
721.10283 (a)(2)(i), (ii), (iii) and (b)(1) revised; (a)(2)(iv) 
        removed; eff. 8-31-15......................................37166
721.10284 (a)(2)(i), (ii), (iii) and (b)(1) revised; (a)(2)(iv) 
        removed; eff. 8-31-15......................................37166
721.10509 Added....................................................12087
721.10515 (a)(1) and (2)(i) revised................................70175
721.10780 Added....................................................75816
721.10781 Added....................................................75816
721.10782 Added....................................................75816
721.10783 Added....................................................75816
721.10793 Added.....................................................5467
721.10794 Added.....................................................5468
721.10795 Added.....................................................5468
721.10796 Added.....................................................5468
721.10797 Added.....................................................5468

[[Page 851]]

721.10798 Added.....................................................5469
721.10799 Added.....................................................5469
721.10800 Added.....................................................5469
721.10801 Added.....................................................5469
721.10802 Added.....................................................5469
721.10803 Added.....................................................5469
721.10804 Added.....................................................5469
721.10805 Added.....................................................5470
721.10806 Added.....................................................5470
721.10807 Added.....................................................5470
721.10808 Added.....................................................5470
721.10809 Added.....................................................5470
721.10810 Added.....................................................5470
721.10811 Added.....................................................5471
721.10812 Added; eff. 7-7-15.......................................26457
721.10813 Added; eff. 7-7-15.......................................26457
721.10814 Added; eff. 7-7-15.......................................26457
721.10815 Added; eff. 7-7-15.......................................26457
721.10816 Added; eff. 7-7-15.......................................26457
721.10817 Added; eff. 7-7-15.......................................26458
721.10818 Added; eff. 7-7-15.......................................26458
721.10819 Added; eff. 7-7-15.......................................26459
721.10820 Added; eff. 7-7-15.......................................26459
721.10821 Added; eff. 7-7-15.......................................26459
721.10822 Added; eff. 7-7-15.......................................26459
721.10823 Added; eff. 7-7-15.......................................26459
721.10824 Added; eff. 7-7-15.......................................26459
721.10825 Added; eff. 7-7-15.......................................26460
721.10826 Added; eff. 7-7-15.......................................26460
721.10827 Added; eff. 7-7-15.......................................26460
721.10828 Added; eff. 7-7-15.......................................26460
721.10829 Added; eff. 7-7-15.......................................26460
721.10830 Added; eff. 8-4-15.......................................32013
721.10831 Added; eff. 8-4-15.......................................32013
721.10832 Added; eff. 8-4-15.......................................32014
721.10833 Added; eff. 8-4-15.......................................32014
721.10834 Added; eff. 8-4-15.......................................32014
721.10835 Added; eff. 8-4-15.......................................32014
721.10836 Added; eff. 8-4-15.......................................32015
721.10837 Added; eff. 8-4-15.......................................32015
721.10838 Added; eff. 8-4-15.......................................32015
721.10839 Added; eff. 8-4-15.......................................32015
721.10840 Added; eff. 8-4-15.......................................32015
721.10841 Added; eff. 8-4-15.......................................32015
721.10842 Added; eff. 8-4-15.......................................32016
    Removed........................................................53001
721.10843 Added; eff. 8-4-15.......................................32016
721.10844 Added; eff. 8-4-15.......................................32016
721.10845 Added; eff. 8-4-15.......................................32016
721.10846 Added; eff. 8-4-15.......................................32017
721.10847 Added; eff. 8-4-15.......................................32017
721.10848 Added; eff. 8-4-15.......................................32017
721.10849 Added; eff. 8-4-15.......................................32017
721.10850 Added; eff. 8-4-15.......................................32017
721.10852 Added....................................................59604
721.10853 Added....................................................59605
721.10854 Added....................................................59605
721.10855 Added....................................................59606
721.10856 Added....................................................59606
721.10857 Added....................................................59606
721.10858 Added....................................................59606
721.10859 Added....................................................59607
721.10860 Added....................................................59607
721.10861 Added....................................................59607
721.10862 Added....................................................59607
721.10863 Added....................................................59607
721.10864 Added....................................................59607
721.10865 Added....................................................59608
721.10866 Added....................................................59608
721.10867 Added....................................................59608
721.10868 Added....................................................59608
721.10869 Added....................................................59608
721.10870 Added....................................................59609
721.10871 Added....................................................59609
    Removed........................................................72593
721.10872 Added....................................................59609
721.10873 Added....................................................59609
    Removed........................................................72593
721.10874 Added....................................................59610
    Removed........................................................72593

                                  2016

   (Regulations published from January 1, 2016, through July 1, 2016)

40 CFR
                                                                   81 FR
                                                                    Page
Chapter I
711.6 (b)(2)(iv) Table 2 amended...................................17395
721.10673 Added.....................................................7463
721.10674 Added.....................................................7463
721.10675 Added.....................................................7463
721.10851 Added....................................................20540
721.10875 Added....................................................30470
721.10876 Added....................................................30470
721.10877 Added....................................................30470
721.10878 Added....................................................30471
721.10879 Added....................................................30471
721.10880 Added....................................................30471
721.10881 Added....................................................30471
721.10882 Added....................................................30472
721.10883 Added....................................................30472
721.10884 Added....................................................30472
721.10885 Added....................................................30472
721.10886 Added....................................................30472
721.10887 Added....................................................30472
721.10888 Added....................................................30473
721.10889 Added....................................................30473
721.10890 Added....................................................30473
721.10891 Added....................................................30473
721.10892 Added....................................................30474

[[Page 852]]

721.10893 Added....................................................30474
721.10894 Added....................................................30474
721.10895 Added....................................................30474
721.10896 Added....................................................30474
721.10897 Added....................................................30475
721.10898 Added....................................................30475
721.10899 Added....................................................30475
721.10900 Added....................................................30475
721.10901 Added....................................................30476
721.10902 Added....................................................30476
721.10903 Added....................................................30476
721.10904 Added....................................................30476
721.10905 Added....................................................30477
721.10906 Added....................................................30477
721.10907 Added....................................................30477
721.10908 Added....................................................30477
721.10909 Added....................................................30477
721.10910 Added....................................................30478
721.10911 Added....................................................30478
721.10912 Added....................................................30478
721.10913 Added....................................................30478
721.10914 Added....................................................30479
721.10915 Added....................................................30479
721.10916 Added....................................................30479
721.10917 Added....................................................30479
721.10918 Added....................................................30479
721.10919 Added....................................................30480
721.10920 Added....................................................30480
721.10921 Added....................................................30480
721.10922 Added....................................................30480
721.10923 Added....................................................30481
721.10924 Added....................................................30481


                                  [all]
</pre></body></html>
